From Left: Commissioner in charge of the Department of Gender Promotion and Human and Social Developments, Economic Committee of Central African States (ECCAS), Her Excellency, Ms. Kapinga-Yvette Ngandu; ECCAS President, His Excellency Gilberto Da Piedade Vérissimo; President/Executive Producer, All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA), Mr. Mike Dada; AFRIMA Associate Producer, Ms Victoria Nkong,  at the ECCAS Secretariat, in Libreville, Gabon. As the All Africa Music Awards began its countdown to the 2022 main awards ceremony, Monday, with the call for submission of entries from artistes, the continental awards platform has restated its commitment to uplifting the African creative economy, using music as its tool.  It made this known during a recent strategic stakeholder meeting, in Libreville, Gabon, with the President of Economic Community of Central African  States (ECCAS) Commission, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Gabon, delegates and senior officials  from the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), as well as delegates from Centre International des Civilisations Bantu (CICIBA) who are excited about the AFRIMA initiative. AFRIMA, which is in partnership with the African Union Commission (AUC), corroborated UNESCO’s standpoint, on the need to deepen Africa’s creative exports, especially through providing access to training and resources for young aspiring creatives. http://www.amehnews.com According to UNESCO’s representative to Gabon and ECCAS, Mr. Eric Voli Bi, Africa’s creative economy needs more support and opportunities for the youth – who make up the larger chunk of the workforce – to thrive. He said, “I must thank AFRIMA for constantly projecting the continent in a positive light to the world, and for giving African youths opportunities to be recognised on a continental and even global scale. UNESCO is always interested in youth education and  development initiatives, and AFRIMA is one veritable platform to help stimulate potentials among these youths. I believe, with one voice, we can speak louder. That is the way to go.” The President of ECCAS Commission,  His Excellency Gilberto Da Piedade Vérissimo,  accompanied by Her Excellency Ms. Kapinga-Yvette Ngandu, Commissioner in charge of the Department of Gender Promotion and Human and Social Developments, ECCAS, welcomed the AFRIMA delegates to its regional secretariat and pledged support towards AFRIMA. He assured that ECCAS will partner AFRIMA to provide capacity building for African youths across the central African region as well as develop its music industry. Vérissimo said, “Every year, we see our African artistes shine on global levels. It will be retrogressive for us, if we do not invest in them as well. ECCAS, in partnership with the European Union, will continue to invest resources into capacity building for African youths, especially within the entertainment sector. Apart from healthcare and education, the cultural and creative sector of the Central African region is within our primary focus. We are excited that platforms like AFRIMA thrive to give voice to our objectives, and we will pull our weight behind it, for the growth of the continent.” On behalf of the awards platform, the President and Executive President, AFRIMA, Mr. Mike Dada, assured Africans that the AFRIMA, which has been running since 2014, will continue to prioritise inclusivity in its capacity-building initiatives. https://www.afrima.org “AFRIMA, and all its supporting initiatives, like the Africa Creative Academy, which we have in the pipeline, is for the entire continent. It is not an East African affair, or a West African Affair. We are one voice and one platform for the African people. So, our capacity-building efforts will cover the length and breadth of the continent and the diaspora. We equally apply this same character in all our campaigns, especially our submission of entries which is ongoing from now till August 5, 2022; it covers everyone across the continent and the diaspora. “We have done this since 2014, and we are committed to consolidating our efforts this year, with even more zeal, initiatives and twists, to make AFRIMA the pride of not just the African individual, but also every black person and lover of African music out there.” From Left:- Gabonese musician, Fang the Goldenman; Commissioner in charge of the Department of Gender Promotion and Human and Social Developments, Economic Committee of Central African States (ECCAS), Her Excellency, Ms. Kapinga-Yvette Ngandu; President/Executive Producer, All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA), Mr. Mike Dada; Gabonese musician, Kessidekifra, at the ECCAS Secretariat, in Libreville, Gabon. The main ceremony of the All Africa Music awards will be held from Thursday November 3 to Saturday November 6, 2022. It will feature a 4-day fiesta of music, glitz, and glamour, which commences with a welcome soiree, followed by the AFRIMA Music Village, the host city tour, African Music Business Summit, and the exclusive nominees’ party, before culminating with the live awards ceremony broadcast to over 84 countries around the world. The submission of entries for the awards is also ongoing for artistes, artiste managers, record producers, recording companies, video directors, disc jockeys and other relevant stakeholders can submit their work or submit on behalf of their clients via the official afrima website at www.afrima.org. All entries must be done in consonance with AFRIMA guidelines, which are also available on the website. Importantly, all prospective entries must have been created between August 20, 2021 and August 5, 2022, being the year-in-review for all submissions. African music lovers can follow through with the build-up events to the main awards, by engaging the social media platforms (Instagram – Afrima.official; Twitter – Afrimaofficial).