The gunmen, who abducted over 50 members of GSM communication Union, along Sokoto-Zamfara Expressway demanded the sum of N145 million naira ransom. the bandits placed the sum of five million naira ransom on each of the kidnapped victims, saying that they will not release them individually but collectively. Commenting on the issue, the union in Gusau, Zamfara State capital, revealed that seven of the kidnapped victims have been rescued by members of the local vigilante group. The union said that over 50 of its members were returning from a wedding ceremony in Sokoto State when they were abducted on Saturday evening in Dogon Awo, a community around Tureta town, bordering Sokoto and Zamfara States. “The victims are mobile phone and accessories dealers in Bebeji plaza in Gusau, Zamfara State capital,” the union said. According to the State Secretary of the union, Mr. Nasiru Musa, seven members of the union were rescued by members of the local vigilante group known as Yansakai on Sunday evening, about twenty four hours after their abduction. “The bandits have called many times on Monday morning to inform us of their stand regarding our members that are with them. “They demanded five million naira for each of the 30 kidnapped victims with them, making it a total sum of 145 Million naira before they can regain their freedom. “The bandits insisted that the money must be paid collectively, warning that they will not deal with the victims individually. “The DPO of Bakura Local Government Area called Monday morning, informing us that seven of the abducted people have been rescued by Yansakai group on Sunday evening “We have sent a delegation to go and bring them to Gusau, the State capital so that we can reunite them with their families,” he said. However, the Chairman of the Union in Gusau Local Government Area of the State, Alhaji Mustapha Khalifa has appealed to the family and relations of the victims to remain calm and intensify prayers According to him, the union was doing everything possible to ensure that the victims regained their freedom from the bandits very soon. “We are appealing to the parents and relations of the victims to remain calm as we are also worried and disturbed over the ugly development. We are working with security agencies and the State government to rescue them very soon,” he said.