Popular musician, Olubankole Wellington, generally known as Banky W has expressed his appreciation after clinching the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, House of Representatives ticket. Banky W will be contesting the legislative seat for the Eti-Osa Federal Constituency in Lagos State, on the platform of the PDP. He had on Monday won the re-run election with 24 votes, defeating Sam Aiboni, who scored only five votes. In an instagram post, Banky W thanked everyone for the support given him to win the Party’s ticket. The singer said: “I want to thank the Leaders of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) for encouraging me to join the family, and empowering me to stand on our great platform. “I want to thank our party members and delegates for accepting me, for trusting me, and for giving me the go-ahead in a landslide to represent the great constituency of Eti-Osa, Lagos. “I want to thank my very formidable competitor Barrister Sam Aiboni – we aren’t opponents within the PDP; we’re brothers on the same side, and I hope that our shared love for our community will build a bridge for us to be able work together for the progress and prosperity of our people. “Most importantly, I want to thank the almighty God for the gift of life, and purpose. I’m nothing without His Grace. “I hope we remember that this isn’t about me, this is about all of us.” Popular musician, Olubankole Wellington, generally known as Banky W has expressed his appreciation after clinching the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, House of Representatives ticket. Banky W will be contesting the legislative seat for the Eti-Osa Federal Constituency in Lagos State, on the platform of the PDP. He had on Monday won the re-run election with 24 votes, defeating Sam Aiboni, who scored only five votes. In an instagram post, Banky W thanked everyone for the support given him to win the Party’s ticket. The singer said: “I want to thank the Leaders of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) for encouraging me to join the family, and empowering me to stand on our great platform. “I want to thank our party members and delegates for accepting me, for trusting me, and for giving me the go-ahead in a landslide to represent the great constituency of Eti-Osa, Lagos. “I want to thank my very formidable competitor Barrister Sam Aiboni – we aren’t opponents within the PDP; we’re brothers on the same side, and I hope that our shared love for our community will build a bridge for us to be able work together for the progress and prosperity of our people. “Most importantly, I want to thank the almighty God for the gift of life, and purpose. I’m nothing without His Grace. “I hope we remember that this isn’t about me, this is about all of us.”