The Nigeria economy recorded a growth rate of 4.0 percent in the third quarter of 2021 against 5 percent recorded in the second quarter of the year.  The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) comprised 400 Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of MAN member-companies across the six geo-political zones and Sectoral Groups of the Association has stated in the reports for the six months of 2021 released recently for the sector disclosed that the Manufacturing local raw materials utilization in the manufacturing sector dipped to 51.7 percent in the period under review from 56.5 percent recorded in the corresponding period of 2020.  Thus representing 4.8 percentage points decline over the period.  Nevertheless, it however, declined by 1.3 percentage points when compared with 53 percent recorded in the preceding half.  Furthermore, the local sourcing of raw materials averaged stood at 52.4 percent in 2021 as against 57.5 percent in 2020. Since the full opening of the economy following the lockdown associated with COVID-19 pandemic, local raw materials and other manufacturing inputs have been relatively scarce and costly, it added.  “This has also affected the output of the sector negatively. http://www.amehnews.com The MAN in conclusion noted that the year 2021 provided the opportunity to redress the staggering negative impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on global, national, and industrial scales. Just as world economy strongly rebounded in 2021 following the continuous containment of the pandemic and the opening of global economies, the Nigerian economy and the manufacturing sector also reflected this positive movement in their output growth in the year. According to the report the economy leapt from -1.94 growth rate in 2020 to 3.38 percent in 2021, just as the manufacturing sector growth increased from -2.85 percent in 2020 to 3.37 percent in 2021.  However, it said, notwithstanding the improve performance of the manufacturing sector during the year, it is still far beyond its potential growth and contribution to national output due to an almost innumerable challenges confronting the sector.  Association, therefore said Government should create plausible incentives for investment in the development of raw materials locally through the Backward Integration and Resource based industrialization initiates. We recognize an urgent need for investment and production of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) in the country; this should be adequately incentivized to encourage significant private investments, it affirmed.   The MAN further recommended the following points:  saying government should ensure commitment to increase the electricity supply from the current 10,000MW, embrace and support significant development of energy mix and renewable: the country has huge potentials for Solar and Wind and Sustain the Eligible Customer scheme and extricate the “debt clause” to allow manufacturers to participate in the initiative.  Others are: rehabilitate existing major road corridors and construct new ones for seamless movement of raw materials to factories and finished goods to the markets and deepen the ongoing development of rails system to change narrative on operating environment from being high cost to low production cost environment  Also, the Nigerian economy picked up in 2021 after the country exited the 2020 recession in the fourth quarter of 2020. The fourth quarter reported by NBS in 2021 revealed the fifth positive growth after the recession, which reflected the return of economic activities in the country.  Although, the report noted that the data revealed a steady progress, but the impact is not felt as the economy is still struggling with galloping inflationary pressure, rising unemployment rate, exchange rate volatility, surging debt profile amongst others.  The World Bank prediction, that the Nigeria economy was expected to grow by 1.8 percent in 2021 based on the projected recovery of crude oil prices and resumption of economic activities in the global market but the instability in the macroeconomic situation of the country coupled with the incessant insecurity situation in the country threatens the expected result.  According to the NBS records for 2021 fourth quarter recorded a fall in GDP growth to 3.98 percent from 4.03 percent recorded in the third quarter of 2021. The data shows that the economy increased by 3.87 point when compared with 0.11 percent recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020 and contracted by 0.05 point when compared with 4.03 percent recorded in the preceding quarter of 2021. http://www.manufacturersassociation.org The report has it that the drop in the recorded growth rate in the third and fourth quarter revealed that the economy grew at a slower pace which is largely due to the base effects of the negative growth recorded in 2020 coupled with the macroeconomic and insecurity instability in the country.  According to MAN this development called for consistent and collective effort to enact and implement policies that will improve economic activities across the productive sectors of the economy. “It is also necessary that Government ensure adherence of the citizens to safety measures to control the spread of COVID-19 and other variants of the disease and implement necessary reforms in the health sector to sustain and improve the growth of the country.  “The Manufacturing sector recorded a growth rate of 2.28 percent in the fourth quarter of 2021 which revealed an increase of 3.79 point when compared with -1.51 percent recorded in the corresponding quarter of 2020. However, the sector’s performance contracted by 2.01 point in comparison to 4.29 percent recorded in the preceding quarter of 2021.  “The positive performance recorded in the manufacturing sector in year 2021 is attributed to the palliative measures imposed by Government to salvage the sector from the effect of Covid 19 pandemic. Nevertheless, to improve and reposition the sector back as the engine of growth, there is need to maintain those policies and formulate others that will encourage investments especially on the stability of exchange rate, development of local raw materials, protection of lives and properties among others, it stressed. 