The President General, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, Comrade Prince Adeyanju Adewale disclosed this adding that the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria’s efforts at ensuring maritime workers’ compliance with drug laws.  According Comrade Prince Adewale, am delighted to present to you our thoughts and plan of action on Drug Control and crime prevention in and around our ports. http://www.amehnews.com The Second Edition of Journalng Port Industry Town Hall Meeting Held at Apapa, Lagos.  All the stakeholders present at JournalNG organizing event considered the theme as timely, considering the various scenario of increased incidences of seizure of illicit drugs and the subsequent arrest of some persons believed to have connived, planned, and participated in trafficking the drug through our ports.  Union Boss noted that Drug trafficking is a global illicit trade involving the cultivation, manufacture, distribution, and sale of substances that are subject to drug prohibition laws.  Indeed, he said drug trafficking represents a major challenge for Nigeria and port users/operators. This is true due to the rather porous nature of our security structure in our ports, jetties, and terminals.  “World drug report 2021 clearly shows that there is much work to be done to confront the many harms inflicted by illicit drugs to health, development, peace and security, in all regions of the world an estimated quarter of a billion people, or around 5% of the global adult population, used drugs at least once.  “In response to this challenge, maritime workers union of Nigeria has reached out to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) with a view to jointly building one of the strongest counter-narcotics enforcement capacities for and around our ports: On which note I wish to especially thank the Buba Marwa led NDLEA for doing yore-man’s job of curtailing drug trafficking in our ports.  “I also would quickly seize this opportunity to extend our hand of fellowship to the NDLEA for a collaborative alliance that will seek to stem the distribution and trafficking of illicit drugs through our ports.  Comrade Prince Adewale further disclosed that we were recently in a town hall meeting with members of the Port Standing Task Team (PSTT) which had in attendance all our shop floor stewards starting from officers from the Units through the Districts and to the branch and national.  “At that interactive meeting, the Union informed all and sundry that it had zero tolerance for illicit drug peddlers and therefore will not condone the act if any member is found culpable, pronouncing that such member automatically loses membership of the union. http://www.ndlea.gov.ng He stressed Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) has also held several press conferences to sensitize our members and the general public to the very dangerous nature of illicit drug use and its trafficking portend to society and development and to further push home this stand, MWUN has concluded a plan to undertake a public sensitization program which will draw attention to the harm of illicit drug trafficking.  MWUN President General disclosed that the program will kick start from Lagos ports and will be taken to all ports and terminals in the nation. We expect to involve all stakeholders and well-meaning port users and even our international affiliate-International Transport Workers Federation (ITF).  At MWUN, he said, we will leave no stone unturned to ensure that we join hands with our security infrastructure. We affirm our conviction to keep the flag of zero tolerance to drug peddling and use on our front burner and to sustainably. Consolidate our credibility and build the Port we want, we must therefore move from a catalog of good intentions and collectively step up responses to cope with these challenges, it is our hope that this plan of action will redirect our efforts towards addressing the Drug peddling problem in our ports, he added.