Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, on Thursday, reappointed the immediate past Secretary to the State Government, Barrister Ibrahim Mohammed Kashim, as the new SSG. Kashim resigned his appointment in May to pursue his political ambition following the directive of the governor to all political appointees and aides with political ambition to resign based on the provision of the Electoral Act. A release signed by Special Adviser Media and Publicity to the Governor, Mukhtar Gidado, made available to journalists, disclosed that the reappointment took immediate effect. “His Excellency, Sen. Bala A. Mohammed, CON, (Kauran Bauchi) the Executive Governor of Bauchi State has approved the re-appointment of Barr. Ibrahim Mohammed kashim as the Secretary to the Bauchi State Government. “His re-appointment is informed by his track record of sincerity, loyalty, commitment and wealth of experience in the discharge of assigned responsibilities. “Barr. Ibrahim Mohammed Kashim was the immediate past Secretary to the Bauchi State Government . “The appointment takes immediate effect,” Gidado stated. DAILY POST reports that Kashim contested and won the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial primary election last week to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 general election. However, days after winning the primary election, Kashim withdrew his candidacy, forcing the party to fix a fresh primary election on Saturday. Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, on Thursday, reappointed the immediate past Secretary to the State Government, Barrister Ibrahim Mohammed Kashim, as the new SSG. Kashim resigned his appointment in May to pursue his political ambition following the directive of the governor to all political appointees and aides with political ambition to resign based on the provision of the Electoral Act. A release signed by Special Adviser Media and Publicity to the Governor, Mukhtar Gidado, made available to journalists, disclosed that the reappointment took immediate effect. “His Excellency, Sen. Bala A. Mohammed, CON, (Kauran Bauchi) the Executive Governor of Bauchi State has approved the re-appointment of Barr. Ibrahim Mohammed kashim as the Secretary to the Bauchi State Government. “His re-appointment is informed by his track record of sincerity, loyalty, commitment and wealth of experience in the discharge of assigned responsibilities. “Barr. Ibrahim Mohammed Kashim was the immediate past Secretary to the Bauchi State Government . “The appointment takes immediate effect,” Gidado stated. DAILY POST reports that Kashim contested and won the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial primary election last week to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 general election. However, days after winning the primary election, Kashim withdrew his candidacy, forcing the party to fix a fresh primary election on Saturday.