The CEO of the College of Insurance and current President of AIO, Dr. Ben Kajwang  The President, Local Organising Committee for the 48th AIO Conference and Annual General Assembly said on behalf of the Local Organising Committee, the entire Kenyan Insurance Market and the AIO Executive Committee, warmly welcome everybody to the conference from 25th to 30th June 2022 in Nairobi, Kenya. We are also honoured to be celebrating the 50th Anniversary of the African Insurance Organisation, he added.  Dr. Ben Kajwang, local organizing committee for the 48th AIO added that the last two years have taught us to be agile and responsive to our environment. He pointed out that What was termed as the ‘new-normal’ has been assimilated into our previous way of life and this makes us more flexible. Thankfully, we are witnessing lower infection rates and a weaker COVID-19 virus, increased vaccination numbers and easing of travel restrictions. We are therefore, happy and prepared to host you both in person and virtually. We have put in place adequate measures to ensure your safety.  http://www.amehnews.com Our world has changed, according to Kajwang, in some cases for the better but for our environment and climate, it is taking a turn for the worse. The effects of climate change have resulted in more frequent natural disasters including floods, droughts, forest fires, melting glaciers and mountain snow caps. Africa has made negligible contribution to the effects of climate change yet, according to the World Meteorological Department, four out of 10 of the worst climate disasters in 2021, occurred in Africa.  “The theme for this year’s conference is, ‘Insurance and Climate Change: Harnessing the Opportunities for Growth in Africa’ and it speaks to what our Continent is experiencing. The insurance industry has a critical role to play in helping companies and nations manage, measure and reduce the impact of climate change. We therefore, cannot continue with business as usual in the face of increasing frequency and scale of risks caused by climate change, we must adjust our business models to better support Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues.”  In his words: The Conference papers will delve deeper into the African perspective of this global issue while focusing on Agriculture insurance, use of data for solutions and the power of consumer education. It is our hope that delegates will find the information from the presentations relevant and valuable in their day-to-day business operations. READ ALSO THIS: At AIO 48th Annual Conf: Smart out; Kajwang In as President He stressed that the AIO has been in existence for 50 years and this milestone calls for celebration.  According to him, the first day of the Conference, Monday. 27th June 2022 has been set aside to mark the Golden Jubilee under the theme ‘AIO at 50: A call for African Insurance Renaissance.’ http://www.naicom.com Kajwang assured the participants that the 48th Annual Conference is going to be rewarding and exciting.  We invite you to come and experience warm Kenyan hospitality, indulge in our delicacies, get immersed in our rich cultural heritage and above all, experience our wildlife right next to the Conference venue, he concluded.