The Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) has equipped and handed over a completed Information Communication Technology (ICT) Centre to Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. Nnamdi Azikiwe University is among four universities in the six geopolitical zones penciled down to benefit from the commission’s benevolence. Three other universities who benefited from the scheme include: University of Port Harcourt (South South), Federal University of Technology Minna (North West) and an unnamed university in the North East Zone. The ultramodern ICT Centre consists of 100 high caliber computer systems, Server room, external Power Generating set and solar system to further enhance and boost power supply. A senior official of the NCC, Engr. Kenneth Uzoekwe, who handed the centre over to the school management, stated that the ICT Centre is a Federal Government intervention through the NCC. He said the intervention was part of her mandate towards bridging digital divide, encouraging development and breeding technology hubs. “The ICT Centre will enhance Research and Development, which has the capacity to take high tech software like Engineering design, science and programming. “The system can be upgraded even as the centre has a Central Processing Unit and a server to further boost its capabilities,” he said. The handover was witnessed by the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Charles Esimone, Director of Works Services, Mr. Sam Onwuemena; Director MICTU (Software), Dr. Azubuike Aniedo; and Deputy Director of Physical Planning, Mr. Osita Paul Okafor. Reacting, Esimone expressed delight that UNIZIK is one of the institutions to have benefited from the intervention of the NCC. He emphasized that the institution is not ignorant of the demands expected of it in terms of teaching and research and disclosed that the institution will enjoy the partnership of the NCC by effectively utilizing the ICT Centre, which will aid digital processes such as Computer-Based Test (CBT), Transcript and other ICT-based activities.