All is now set for the commissioning of the newly built international terminal of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos on Tuesday, March 22, 2022. In a statement sent to The AmehNews and endorsed by Faithful A. Hope-Ivbaze (Mrs.), The Ag General manager, Corporate Affairs of the authority saying The brand new, world-class international terminal is one of five, being built in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Kano and Enugu, in a bilateral arrangement between the Federal Government of Nigeria, and the People’s Republic of China. The ones in Abuja and Port Harcourt have been completed and commissioned already, while that of Kano has been completed and will soon be commissioned, she added. The new Lagos International terminal, Hope-Ivbaze revealed that will be commissioned by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR), has the capacity to process 14million passengers per annum. It is built on a land mass of approximately 56,000 square metres, and it has 66 check-in counters. According to her other facilities in the terminal include 5 baggage collection carousels, 16 Immigration desks at arrival, 28 Immigration desks at departure, 8 security screening points, 6 passenger boarding bridges (out of which 2 has already been installed), 2 food courts, 4 premium lounges, 22 guest rooms and spa, 16 airline ticketing offices, visa on arrival and port health facility, as well as praying area, more than 3,000 square metres of duty free space, approximately 5,000 square metres of lettable utility space, amongst others. “The new terminal to be commissioned is expected to generate about three thousand direct and indirect employment for Nigerians, as well as enhance passenger facilitation and comfort at the Lagos airport. “The Authority will also sign a memorandum of understanding with the Lagos State Government on the 9km Airport-Shasha-Alimosho link Road to be constructed by the State Government. FAAN….. Committed to her core values of Safety, Security and Comfort.