The index performance underpinned the improvement in the confidence of manufacturers on the economy  The Manufacturers Confidence Index (MCCI) is an index designed by a group under aegis of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) comprised of over 250 members to measure changes in quarterly manufacturing activities in relation to movement in the macroeconomy and Government policies.  The Index is therefore barometer used by MAN to aggregate the views of CEOs of manufacturing companies on changes in the economy. The standard diffusion factors considered in the MCCI processes include the Current Business Condition, Business Condition for the next three months, Current Employment Condition (Rate of Employment), Employment Condition for the next three months and Production Level for the next three months.  READ ALSO THIS:  MAN’ Sectoral Group Index: FBT sectoral group outperform others by 2.8 points to close at 58.7 points in Q4, 2021 from 55.9 points recorded previously According to the report from MCCI covered 400 Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of MAN member-companies across the six geo-political zones and Sectoral Groups of the Association through MAN’s branch networks. Since the first edition, MCCI has consistently provided experiential bases that are critical to strengthening the evidence advocacy dogma of the Association sayings Level of Unsold Manufactured Products in the Figure ‘ x’ above showed that inventory of unsold manufactured products slowed in the quarter under review based on the  opinion of manufacturing CEOs enumerated during the fieldwork of the  report. The report contained 39% percent of respondent disagreed that inventory of unsold manufactured products has reduced over the last three months, while another 39% simply disagreed of the same said leaving 22% of the respondents on decide whether inventory of unsold manufactured products has reduced or not in the quarter under review.  MCCI also measures changes in key macroeconomic indicators including sector specific factors that represent Government activities and policy measures in the economy. Consequently, the effects of movements in Foreign Exchange, Lending Rate, Credit to the manufacturing sector and Capital Expenditure of the Government were also measured.  In addition, it gauges the outcome of changes in business operating environment factors which include Over-regulation, Multiple taxes/levies, Access to seaports, Local raw-material sourcing, Government patronage of Nigerian manufactured goods and Inventory of unsold manufactured products.  During the entire year 2020 which marked the high-point of COVID-19 pandemic, aggregate consumption was at the lowest ebb due to loss of household and firm purchasing power resulting from unpaid salaries and contract sums.  Moving forward therefore, it important that Government provides a contingent buffer through appropriate saving to mitigate shortage of fund in similarly periods as CoVID-19.  It is also important to promote industrial development in the country to assimilate the unemployed Nigerians, particularly those displaced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Government should also improve purchasing power in the country by carrying out ardent monetary and exchange rate management so as to allow the persistent inflationary pressure to decelerate.  The report further noted that in the second quarter of 2021, the normalcy and tranquility seen in the economy in the first quarter of the year was sustained as business activities increasingly rebounded from the hangover of COVID-19 pandemic. This is corroborated by the increase in MCCI scores for the second quarter of the year to 52.9 points from 49.1 points recorded in the first quarter.  According to the report, the index score of 52.9 points in the quarter under review was the first it stayed above the 50-neutral point since the first quarter of 2020. READ ALSO THIS: MAN Urges Government to intentionally put in place mechanism that will address major challenges of manufacturers permanently: in order to improve the performance of the sector. Consequently, the index performance underpinned the improvement in the confidence of manufacturers on the economy, although much is still required to ensure that the current momentum in the economy is sustained and improved upon.  Therefore, this report provided critical recommendations that addressed the various challenges of the manufacturing sector as identified by manufacturers in the quarter under review.  We believe that with the ardent implementation of the recommendations, there would be significant positive change in the business operating environment in the country.  