Ukraine President, Volodymyr Zelensky has claimed that his country’s military has dealt “powerful blows” to Russian forces amid the ongoing war between both Russia and Ukraine. In a video address on Friday, Zelensky also thanked all those who were helping defend Ukraine, claiming that more than 16,000 Russian soldiers had been killed since the war began. Zelensky said that the sea would not be calm for Russia even when there was no storm. “Over the past week, our heroic armed forces have dealt powerful blows to the enemy [Russia], significant losses,” Zelensky said as quoted by CNN. “I’m grateful to our defenders who showed the occupiers that the sea will not be calm for them even when there is no storm. Because there will be fire. “By restraining Russia’s actions, our defenders are leading the Russian leadership to a simple and logical idea: talk is necessary. Meaningful. Urgent. Fair. For the sake of the result, not for the sake of the delay. “16,000 Russian servicemen have already died. For what? What does it give and to whom? “Any negotiations with Russia must guarantee Ukraine’s sovereignty and the country’s territorial integrity,” he added. The war between Ukraine and Russia started last month and many casualties have already been recorded. Ukraine President, Volodymyr Zelensky has claimed that his country’s military has dealt “powerful blows” to Russian forces amid the ongoing war between both Russia and Ukraine. In a video address on Friday, Zelensky also thanked all those who were helping defend Ukraine, claiming that more than 16,000 Russian soldiers had been killed since the war began. Zelensky said that the sea would not be calm for Russia even when there was no storm. “Over the past week, our heroic armed forces have dealt powerful blows to the enemy [Russia], significant losses,” Zelensky said as quoted by CNN. “I’m grateful to our defenders who showed the occupiers that the sea will not be calm for them even when there is no storm. Because there will be fire. “By restraining Russia’s actions, our defenders are leading the Russian leadership to a simple and logical idea: talk is necessary. Meaningful. Urgent. Fair. For the sake of the result, not for the sake of the delay. “16,000 Russian servicemen have already died. For what? What does it give and to whom? “Any negotiations with Russia must guarantee Ukraine’s sovereignty and the country’s territorial integrity,” he added. The war between Ukraine and Russia started last month and many casualties have already been recorded.