The All Progressives Congress (APC) Osun State chapter has labelled the leading opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) blood-sucking monsters and full of violence. The APC further accused the opposition of being allergic to credible election, warning the party not to soak the State in conflict and stop a repeat of their violence and killing style in the party’s governorship primary election which will be conducted on Tuesday. This was contained in a statement issued by APC Directorate of Publicity, Research and Strategy and signed by its Director, Kunle Oyatomi Esq on Monday in Osogbo, the State capital, calling on security agencies in the State to be vigilant and prevent the PDP from breaking the law and order in the State. The party also warned members and supporters of the All Progressives Congress to stay away from blood-sucking monsters, the PDP, adding that, “if PDP members don’t hesitate to violently kill themselves, vandalize properties belonging to their members just because of delegates congress, what members of other political parties should expect during the party’s governorship primary election?” Oyatomi said, “it is no longer news that PDP is allergic to credible election, and the party is full of violence and blood-sucking monsters who don’t believe in free, fair, credible and transparent election. We ask them to stop acting already rehearsed drama of violence and killing in order not to soak the peace of Osun in conflict. “People of the state of Osun can still vividly recall the level of violence recorded during the PDP delegates’ congress held few weeks ago, where some of their members were killed, while some of them sustained serious injuries; houses and vehicles were also vandalized and burnt by PDP thugs for reasons best known to them. “The weapon-wielding thugs later moved to other areas, brandishing guns, machetes and charms; inflicted injuries on some innocent citizens and shot sporadically into the air, purposely to create tension and fears in the minds of residents of the affected areas.” This ugly incident, according to the party, “showed how callous and deadly Osun PDP is, and Osun people do not want a repeat of such an unfortunate exercise.” Osun APC urged PDP governorship aspirants in the State to call their political thugs and supporters to order, and ensure a peaceful exercise across the State, adding that their collective interest is not worth the blood of a citizen of Osun.