Major roads in Ibadan, Oyo State, will be closed from 12midnight on Friday while markets will also be shut in honour of Senator Lekan Balogun (formerly Otun Olubadan) who will be installed as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadan on Friday (today). Congratulatory messages have also been pouring in for the 79-year old new monarch. Oyo State Road Traffic Management Agency, in a travel advisory issued on Thursday, announced that four major roads would be closed to traffic to prevent gridlock because of the influx of visitors who are expected to be part of the history-making event. The message read, “This is to inform the general public of traffic diversions at the under-listed routes leading to the ancient Mapo Hall, Ibadan occasioned by the official installation of the 42nd paramount ruler and king of Ibadanland, Oba Lekan Balogun, on Friday, March 11, 2022. “The routes which shall be shut by 12am of Thursday, March and reopened 12pm on Saturday, March 12, 2022 include: Beere Junction inward Mapo Hall; Born Photo Junction inward Oja’ba; Idi-Arere Junction inward Oja’ba and Itamerin Junction inward Mapo Hall. “While OYRTMA men and officers, in conjunction with other sister security agencies have been adequately mobilised to direct the flow of traffic and ensure the safety of road users, the authority has however provided alternative routes to vehicles intending to ply the barricaded regions.” Also, Babaloja General of Oyo State, Alhaji Yeken Oladapo, has announced that all markets in Ibadan would be shut in honour of the new Olubadan. Babaloja, who said this in a statement, explained that this was aimed at ensuring free flow of traffic. It read, “The Babaloja General of Oyo State,  Alhaji  Yekini Oladapo,  after arising from a meeting on Wednesday, stated that all markets in Ibadan metropolis will be closed on  Friday, March 11, 2022  in honour of the coronation of the new Olubadan of Ibadanland   Oba Lekan Balogun Ali-Okunmade II. “Market leaders in all the  markets should  open the markets for business by the end of Jumat service when all major activities would have ended.” Oba Balogun, who is from Ali Iwo Family, became the Mogaji of his family in 1986 and the death of Oba Saliu Adetunji on January 2, 2022 paved the way for his emergence as the new Olubadan.