Families and relatives of passengers on board the ill-fated Abuja-Kaduna train besieged Rigasa train station in Kaduna State as early as 1.00 a.m. on Tuesday. They are curious to know the true situation as regards the multiple reports on the Kaduna-Abuja train that was bombed by bandits. The Abuja-Kaduna train, carrying 950 passengers, was bombed by bandits around Kateri-Rijana general area, during which they wounded several passengers. Following the development, relatives of the passengers stormed the station on Tuesday morning to confirm their true condition. The Kaduna State Government had confirmed that the military had secured the trapped train, but was silent on the number of casuality. However, many relatives of the passengers, while speaking to DAILY POST on Tuesday, at the Rigasa station, expressed anxiety on the exact situation. According to Ali Baba, “I heard the news around 11.30 p.m., and I had to rush here this morning.” Another relative, Hajia Muhammed Usman, “I cannot believe what I heard. That is why I ran to Rigasa this morning to find out what happened to my daughter who boarded the train yesterday.” She lamented that, “Kaduna-Abuja road is not safe, Kaduna-Abuja train is not safe, Kaduna International Airport is not safe. Our houses, rooms are not safe. Nowhere is safe in Nigeria.” Families and relatives of passengers on board the ill-fated Abuja-Kaduna train besieged Rigasa train station in Kaduna State as early as 1.00 a.m. on Tuesday. They are curious to know the true situation as regards the multiple reports on the Kaduna-Abuja train that was bombed by bandits. The Abuja-Kaduna train, carrying 950 passengers, was bombed by bandits around Kateri-Rijana general area, during which they wounded several passengers. Following the development, relatives of the passengers stormed the station on Tuesday morning to confirm their true condition. The Kaduna State Government had confirmed that the military had secured the trapped train, but was silent on the number of casuality. However, many relatives of the passengers, while speaking to DAILY POST on Tuesday, at the Rigasa station, expressed anxiety on the exact situation. According to Ali Baba, “I heard the news around 11.30 p.m., and I had to rush here this morning.” Another relative, Hajia Muhammed Usman, “I cannot believe what I heard. That is why I ran to Rigasa this morning to find out what happened to my daughter who boarded the train yesterday.” She lamented that, “Kaduna-Abuja road is not safe, Kaduna-Abuja train is not safe, Kaduna International Airport is not safe. Our houses, rooms are not safe. Nowhere is safe in Nigeria.”