The Osun State Government has expressed dismay over the present hardship being experienced by motorists and other residents over the petrol scarcity in the State in recent times. As part of the efforts of the State government to bring a lasting solution, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has called for a stakeholders’ meeting with the major and independent petroleum marketers in the State. The meeting, according to government sources, was aimed at fine tuning grey areas affecting the availability of the Premium Motor Spirits (PMS), popularly known as petrol. Represented by the State Commissioner for Commerce, Industry, Cooperatives and Empowerment, Dr. Bode Olaonipekun, Oyetola expressed shock and disbelief at the resurgence of long queues in virtually all filling stations throughout the State. Oyetola, who assured that normalcy would soon be restored, called for an end to the arbitrary hike in prices of the product in many filling stations. He reiterated the readiness of his administration to put all necessary machinery in place to make the product available and to be sold at the official pump price of N162. In his words, “The present administration in Osun is not happy with the current hardships being experienced by the motoring and non-motoring public. “To this end, we are prepared to do all the needful within the ambit of the law to get normalcy returned in Osun. “Though not limited to Osun State alone, I assure you, however, that Oyetola administration will soon be on top of the situation. “We can’t continue like this. We call for patient and understanding because very soon, both the motoring and non-motoring public would heave a sigh of relief,” he said. The Chairman, House Committee on Commerce, Industry, Cooperatives and Empowerment, Lateef Adebisi Jayeola in his remark also condemned the development, stressing that all that were officially required to put a stop to the scarcity, would be done by the State legislature. He added that a special task force had been set up to address the issue of demand and supply of the PMS throughout Osun. The lawmaker also called for restraint and understanding of the people pending when there would be a way out. The Chairman of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Osun State Chapter, Alhaji Bukola Mutiu, while appreciating the efforts of the State government, also sought its support and intervention to ensure the availability of the petroleum products in the State. Checks carried out by DAILY POST revealed that in Osogbo where the product is readily available, it sells for as much as between N250 and N300 per litre. The development has made life more difficult for people, as some of the motoring public who cannot afford the price hike have abandoned their vehicles at home to trek long distances.