The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday, disqualified three political parties from participating in the Osun governorship election. The commission said that the parties did not comply with the regulation of the INEC’s Guidelines on Political Party Operations (2018). The INEC further disclosed that it will, on Friday, publish the list and personal particulars of the candidates of qualified political parties in its State and Local Government Offices in Osun State. The disqualified parties are Action Alliance (AA); the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and African Democratic Congress (ADC). In a statement signed by National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye Esq, he revealed that the electoral body will publish the list and personal particulars of the candidates of 15 out of the 18 political parties that conducted primaries. The commission disclosed that “AA did not submit a nomination jointly signed by the National Chairman and Secretary of the party while the ADC and APGA nominated candidates that do not meet the age requirements for the office of Deputy Governor as enshrined in the Constitution.” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday, disqualified three political parties from participating in the Osun governorship election. The commission said that the parties did not comply with the regulation of the INEC’s Guidelines on Political Party Operations (2018). The INEC further disclosed that it will, on Friday, publish the list and personal particulars of the candidates of qualified political parties in its State and Local Government Offices in Osun State. The disqualified parties are Action Alliance (AA); the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and African Democratic Congress (ADC). In a statement signed by National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye Esq, he revealed that the electoral body will publish the list and personal particulars of the candidates of 15 out of the 18 political parties that conducted primaries. The commission disclosed that “AA did not submit a nomination jointly signed by the National Chairman and Secretary of the party while the ADC and APGA nominated candidates that do not meet the age requirements for the office of Deputy Governor as enshrined in the Constitution.” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday, disqualified three political parties from participating in the Osun governorship election. The commission said that the parties did not comply with the regulation of the INEC’s Guidelines on Political Party Operations (2018). The INEC further disclosed that it will, on Friday, publish the list and personal particulars of the candidates of qualified political parties in its State and Local Government Offices in Osun State. The disqualified parties are Action Alliance (AA); the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and African Democratic Congress (ADC). In a statement signed by National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye Esq, he revealed that the electoral body will publish the list and personal particulars of the candidates of 15 out of the 18 political parties that conducted primaries. The commission disclosed that “AA did not submit a nomination jointly signed by the National Chairman and Secretary of the party while the ADC and APGA nominated candidates that do not meet the age requirements for the office of Deputy Governor as enshrined in the Constitution.”