The Coleman Wire and Cables is the largest indigenous wire manufacturing-company in West Africa founded on the principles of developing local industries that would in turn create jobs through the production of good quality product has won Local Content Company of the Year at N.I.E.S. 2022 AWARD CATEGORIES The award was conferred on the company at the gala night of the fifth Nigeria International Energy Summit (NIES), in Abuja, on Monday. The theme of the summit is “Revitalising the Industry: Future Fuels and Energy Transition.” Coleman Wires and Cables bagged award have top other three companies include Dorman Long Engineering, Lee engineering & construction and DeltaAfrik in the category. The organisers of the Gala Dinner and Award Night of the 2022 Nigeria International Energy Summit in Abuja on Monday noted that Coleman Wires and Cables is committed to manufacturing consistent quality wires and cables that meet and exceed our customers’ expectations. The company in its statement reiterated that We ensure continual improvement of our processes and services delivery through staff development, motivation and creation of a conducive work environment towards achieving utmost customer satisfaction. According to Quality Policy Statement, the Company Technical industries limited in line with its context and strategic direction is committed to manufacturing quality electrical & telecommunications wires and cables that meet and exceed our customers’ expectation consistent with relevant stakeholders and ISO 9001:2015 requirements. The management of the company ensure continual improvement of our processes and service delivery through staff development, motivation and creation of a conductive work environment towards achieving utmost customer satisfaction Other companies that bagged awards include Schlumberger Nigeria, Huawei Enterprises, Greenville LNG Ltd., Samsung Heavy Industries and OVH Energy Marketing Company Ltd. They also include Chevron Nigeria Ltd.,  Waltersmith Petroman Company Ltd., Shell Nigeria and Production Company (SNEPCO),  TotalEnergies and Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board. Mr Mohammed Barkindo, Secretary-General, Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, bagged the award of International Petroleum Diplomacy Person of the Year. The Life Time Award was won by Dr Ibe Kachikwu, former Minister of State for Petroleum Resources. Similarly, Malam Mele Kyari, Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd, bagged the Energy Industry Leadership Award. Mr Mike Sangster, Managing Director, TotalEnergies and Mr Abdulrasaq Isa, Chairman, Waltersmith Group, shared the 2021 Energy Personality Award. Also, Mrs Elohor Aiboni, Managing Director, SNEPCO and Mrs Funmi Ogbue, Chief Executive Officer, Zigma Ltd. shared the Women in Energy Award.  