Group photo of participants at the event Risk Based Supervision is the deployment of resources where it matter most focusing on the risks of the organisation or activities. Alternatively, it is the carrying out of supervisory/ regulatory activities with a risk focus for the purpose of efficient use of resources and  achieving maximum output The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM)  today reaffirmed the commission’s commitment to insurance awareness through media capacity building. The Commissioner For Insurance(CFI), Mr Sunday Thomas while declaring open the ongoing retreat for financial journalists with the theme,  ‘Improving Insurance Access Through Market Development and Innovation 2022 and Beyond’ holding  in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital said the retreat was designed to interact with the media and intimate  them with the developments in the insurance industry. The Commissioner, who was represented by the  Deputy Commissioner, Technical NAICOM, Honourable Sabiu Abubakar stated that the event became necessary to correct negative impressions about  insurance industry through media reports as well disseminate to the whole world progress recorded in the industry. Abubakar further noted that as you are aware, this programme is designed to interact with you and to brief you of the latest developments in the industry. To brief you so that you will adequately inform others,he added.   “And the whole  effort is to disseminate to the public and the whole world the progress  insurance industry has made”, he said. The intention and effort of the Commission to shift to Risk Based Supervision (RBS) regime started about ten (10) years ago when it commenced with the issuance of a RBS ROAB MAP in 2016. Then all the emphasis was on creation of awareness and issuance of policies/directives which are regarded as the drivers of RBS implementations. “Others include:Enterprise Risk Management and internal control,  Guideline on Risk management Framework was issued in 2012, Good Corporate Governance and recently issued Code of Good Corporate Governance and Guideline – 2021. While presenting a paper titled, ‘Risk Based Supervision Implementation: Commission’s Perspective”, a Director, Inspectorate Mr Pius Agboola disclosed that the rationale behind Risk Based Supervision (RBS) was to identifying early risks firms might be having,  acting properly and applying effective intervention.. Agboola, who described NAICOM as Africa’s leading regulator in RBS noted that regulator’s method of assessing firms involved studying .the company to know its business nature. Others involved identifying that risk that could be harmful to the company, assessing the ability of the management to control the risk, assessing if the firm has earning, capital and capacity that could minimise the overall net risk and finally rate the company and proffer solutions based on the rating. Mr Agboola further listed the drivers of RBS implementation as follow: Market Conduct Guideline issued in 2015 Prudential Guideline issued in 2015 The International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) for Insurance Institutions in Nigeria. The directive of the Commission to comply with Actuarial Service requirements – 2017 to issue a financial condition report of their companies as at December 31, 2016 and not later than March 31, 2017. Compliance on this directive is to continue and The directive of the Commission for operators to comply with Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) report annually with effect from 2017 He noted that strong capital and good earnings are not substitute to effective risk management controls Also, he said if you have not placed so much emphasis on identification of your inherent risks and the effectiveness of your control functions before now, you need to start to do so immediately. According to the director, while we have stated that good earnings and strong capital are not substitute to effective risk management controls, but if you have weak capital and /or weak earnings and your controls are weak or need improvement, you will be in double or triple jeopardy, which is not a good omen for business, Agboola added.