 L-R Simeon Ononobi (CEO/Co-founder, ThankUCash), Adenike Macaulay (CCO, Wakanow), Adebayo Adedeji (CEO, Wakanow) Wakanow, a travel technology company has announced its partnership with ThankUCash, a loyalty and rewards company to launch a customer loyalty programme, WakaPoints. Speaking during the launch of event in Lagos, the CEO of Wakanow, Mr Adebayo Adedeji, said that WakaPoints is a show of the organisation’s unflinching commitment to ensure that its customers have the best travel experiences. According to him, WakaPoints is Wakanow’s customer loyalty programme and is set towards charting a new course in the Africa travel space. Adedeji said that WakaPoints is an innovative approach to reward loyal travelers and give back value for loyalty. He said, “This is revolutionary. Now, no one has done this before in this market. We are the first organisation to launch this programme in this market. “This is so cultural to us because it is very intrinsic to say thank you when one receives something. It is part of our heritage and part of who we are.” With WakaPoints, Wakanow customers earn points on every travel booking and they can redeem those points instantly on their next booking. Also speaking, Mr Simeon Ononobi, CEO of ThankUCash, the technical partners for the WakaPoints programme, expressed his delight at the launch of WakaPoints. He said, “We are excited to have partnered with Wakanow on building this first of its kind loyalty programme in the travel space in Africa. “I am convinced that everyone who signs up on WakaPoints are in for a rewarding experience.” Mrs Adenike Macaulay, Chief Commercial Officer of Wakanow, said WakaPoints is not just a loyalty programme. “It is an avenue for us first to say thank you and to foster closer relationships with our customers, to better understand, anticipate and fulfill their travel needs. “To say thank you to all existing customers, Wakanow is giving out 20,000 bonus WakaPoints to all its customers who have transacted with them in the past 13 years and the points are redeemable immediately.
To be a part of this, sign up at www.wakapoints.com. Wakanow is built to cater for all of the travel needs of travel enthusiasts from flights, hotels, holiday experiences, visa consultation, COVID-19 test booking, among other offerings. ThankUCash connects customers with businesses in a bid to help businesses grow and prosper while helping customers get the best deals and earn some cashback on every purchase made.