The who-is-who in Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State, on Sunday, converged on the Government House, Enugu, on a solidarity visit to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, in appreciation of his support, love and administration’s uncommon transformational agenda in the council area. Led by the Chairman of Uzo-Uwani LGA, Hon. Chukwudi Nnadozie, the Member representing Uzo-Uwani Constituency, Hon. Josephat Okika, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Hon. Matthew Idu, and their elder statesmen, Chief Dr. Mike Ajogwu, SAN and Chief Maxi Ukuta, the stakeholders, who came in their numbers, thanked Gov. Ugwuanyi for restoring peace and security to the council area. They also expressed gratitude to the governor for the numerous face-lifting infrastructural projects his administration has executed in Uzo Uwani LGA, which was hitherto neglected for many decades, as well as the appointment of their sons and daughters into various government positions. The Uzo-Uwani leaders reaffirmed their solidarity, unflinching loyalty and support to Gov. Ugwuanyi, stressing that they are intact for the governor and will give him 100 percent votes in 2023, starting from the party primaries to the general elections. Speaking on behalf of the people of Uzo Uwani LGA, the council chairman, Hon. Nnadozie said: “Your Excellency, you have done your own part. What we are waiting is come 2023 starting from this year the party primaries will be conducted, we will give you 100 percent support. One vote will not miss from the primaries to the general elections. Our people have vowed that nobody will penetrate them; that they are intact for you. “Your Excellency, we are here to thank you for all your support, love and the face-lift you have given to this local government, Uzo Uwani. Since you assumed office in 2015, Uzo Uwani has changed for good. “You started by making sure that you restored peace and security, safeguarding the lives of the people of Uzo Uwani, among other interventions. We cannot take that for granted”. Also speaking, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Hon. Matthew Idu, who corroborated the council chairman, described Gov. Ugwuanyi as a peace maker and great achiever, stressing that their loyalty and support for the governor are overwhelming. Adding his voice, Chief Maxi Ukuta associated himself with the stance of the stakeholders of Uzo Uwani LGA and commended the governor for the successful conduct of the Local Government Elections in the state. Chief Ukuta stated that Gov. Ugwuanyi has “been acknowledged worldwide as a man of peace”, adding that “this is enormous and important to us”. The elder statesman told the governor that Uzo Uwani LGA supports him more than any other council area in Enugu State, pointing out that “it is not for nothing, it is based on your sense of equity, good conscience and being a very decent man”. According to him, “Your Excellency, you have always chosen the path of peace. You have enormous powers as a governor. I don’t know whether many people here realized the powers conferred on you by the Constitution. “Gov. Ugwuanyi is not called a man of peace for nothing. He has a very active conscience, he does not believe in injustice. “Your Excellency, we are solidly behind you. All the aces are in your favour. You must not be shaken. Thanks to God you are a man of political sagacity. Nobody can beat you to it. Give the decision and that decision will be implemented.”