(L-R): The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika; President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor of Lagos State, Bbabjide Sanwo-Olu, and others during an inspection tour of the newly commissioned terminal at the MMIA in Lagos on March 22, 2022.  President Muhammadu Buhari applauded the Ministry of Aviation and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) for the completion of the new terminal, stressing that it would further create more jobs for qualified Nigerians especially the youth while urged the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, to fast-track the planned concession of the four major airports in the country.   In the process, Buhari asked the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Ms Zainab Ahmed to work with the Aviation Ministry in ensuring the delivery of the two projects.   Also, he directed Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning to source for fund for the immediate construction of second runway for Abuja Airport.   President gave all the above directive on Tuesday while the commissioning of the new terminal constructed by the China Civil Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC) at the Muratala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos.  Buhari also directed Ms Ahmed, the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning to work with the Aviation Ministry in ensuring the delivery of the two projects.  In his words: The concessioning of the four terminals; Lagos, Kano, Port Harcourt and Abuja would further propel development to the sector and grow the country’s economy.  “The new terminal would create additional 3,000 direct and indirect jobs, while the sector’s contributions to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) would further be enhanced.  Buhari said: “This event showcases our strong commitment to the growth of the Nigerian economy despite the challenge of finance facing the country. The commitment of this administration includes agriculture, aviation and infrastructure development.  “Our aviation roadmap developed in 2016 has been consistent with infrastructure development. We have designated Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano airports as free trade zone, while we also removed Valued Added Tax (VAT) from air transport.”  Sirika in his earlier speech, said that the commissioning was a testament to the fact that President Buhari meant business for the aviation industry while insisted that the aviation industry remained the only way by which the 2063 agenda of the African Union (AU) could be realised.  The minister declared that one of the aims of the Ministry was to grow aviation contributions to the GDP to 5 per cent at $4.7 billion from its present 0.06 per cent in the next few years.  He explained that there would be air-rail connectivity between the domestic and international airports to shorten the traffic time between both terminals.  Sirika pointed out foreign exchange and Jet A1 as some of the challenges confronting the aviation industry, lamenting that these had led to numerous setbacks for the sector.  He therefore appealed to President Buhari to direct the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to import Jet fuel in good quantity for operators in the Aviation industry.  “It is pertinent to mention that we stand to gain significant benefits in restoring and maintaining connectivity within, to and from the country. Analysis from IATA shows that aviation sector provides N341bn GDP contribution, 160,000 local jobs created and N535bn expenditure from visitors will be solely generated from restoring and maintaining this connectivity, he cited.  Consequently, Sir, Minister continue that these are the numbers at risk if that connectivity is threatened by the continuous travel restrictions due to current pandemic. Mr. President, aviation business suffers from issue of access to foreign exchange by local and foreign airlines and the ability to repatriate blocked funds, he highlighted.  “Nigeria currently holds $283m of foreign airlines funds blocked in the country. I would like to humbly request the support of the Central Bank, through the directive of Mr. President, to prioritise access to forex for all carriers both local and foreign and to work out a mechanism to clear the existing backlog urgently and prevent subsequent build up.”  While speaking earlier also, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Governor of Lagos State lauded Buhari for giving infrastructure priority in its government.  Lagos State Governor, pointed out that the three projects commissioned on Tuesday; Fertiliser, Lekki refinery and the new terminal would change the status of the country.  He explained that activities of Buhari would not only create jobs for the teeming populace, but also open up the country for foreign investments and opportunities.  Sanwo-Olu cited that the new Lagos terminal has the capacity to process 14 million passengers per annum and built on a land mass of approximately 56,000 square metres with 66 check-in counters.  “Other facilities in the terminal include five baggage collection carousels, 16 Immigration desks at arrival, 28 Immigration desks at departure, eight security screening points, six passenger boarding bridges (out of which two have already been installed), two food courts, four premium lounges and 22 guest rooms and spa.  “Other facilities are 16 airline ticketing offices, visa on arrival and port health facility, as well as praying area, more than 3,000 square metres of duty-free space and approximately 5,000 square metres of lettable utility space.  CCECC which commenced the construction of four new terminals at Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt airports in 2013 with completion period fixed for 20 months.  Its president, Yuan Li had told the government during the visit of the Nigeria’s high-powered delegation to the country that the quality of the work to be done at the airports would be of the highest international standard comparable to similar projects executed by the company in other parts of the world.  The Ameh News recall that the Nigerian Government secured $500 million loan deal from the Exim Bank of China for the projects around September 10, 2018, while additional counterpart funding of $100 million was added by the Nigerian Government.