The relected chairman of Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) Comrade Danjuma Ahmad has promised to consolidate on the gains made during his first tenure and improve on areas found wanting. The returned chairman of the association, Comrade Danjuma Ahmed who stated this in an interview with journalists in his office at FAAN yard assured members of the best deal during the second tenure. Ahmed noted that the aviation industry was gradually picking up with alot of challenges but will try as a union within their limit to ensure the provision of the best welfare for their members. He revealed that the association will focus mainly on welfare by ensuring that all pending issues such as implementation and release of conditions of service of workers were pursued Ahmed said that the Managing Director of FAAN has been making efforts to resolve the FAAN pension issues that has bedeviled the organization for over 36 years adding that the issue was critical and very important for FAAN workers. He explained that this issue when will give further opportunities to engage government in other policies being introduced. The ATSAAN chairman commended Capt Yadudu for training over 4,000 workers adding that about 400 others have been set aside to be trained On concession, he said they were still consulting with government on the issue adding that members will be briefed on the latest development when there was need for that Ahmed decried the high debt owed FAAN by airlines and concessionaires explaining that taskforce to embark debt recovery was in place and have been working to ensure that debtors pay. He said the taskforce does not want to picket airlines as a result of backlog of debt in order not to cripple them but to engage them in negotiations by giving them time to upset their debt. “The debt is huge , particularly with Arik air, Aero contractors. The last outing we had in Abuja, we have to block Arik air because the amount was so high.
That day we insisted they must pay N40m before we allowed them to operate that day I don’t have the figures here but it is huge” He said non aeronautical means of revenue remained the best option to generate for FAAN and that the management was keying into it with PPP method. He however decried the worrisome state of the aviation fuel in the country and called on government to seek solutions