Market development is a strategic step taken to improve/expand an existing market rather than seeking a new market; looking for new buyers to pitch a product to a different segment of consumers in an effort to increase sales.  In his paper titled “NAICOM’s Market Development Initiatives, The Journey So Far” and presented at the NAICOM retreat for financial journalists, the speaker, Rasaaq Salami, the Head, Corporate Communications and Market Development in the Commission, said the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM)focus to explore all the potentials in the Nigerian insurance market was the rallying point for the launch in 2009 market development and restructuring initiative (MDRI) thirteen years running the Commission has not quenched the enthusiasm. It entails looking for new buyers to pitch a product to a different segment of consumers in an effort to increase sales, he added.  The NAICOM retreat for financial journalists with theme: “Improving Insurance Access Through Market Development and Innovation in 2022 and Beyond” was held at Uyo, Akwa Ibom recent.  According to Salami said the essence of the market development initiatives which already is beginning to sprout new premiums income with reference to public building liability insurance, along with others was not so before MDRI, made him to assert that the projection of N6trillion gross premium income by 2030 from the current N630billion in 2021 is achievable. This is against the backdrop of N1.1trillion set when MDRI was launched in 2009 (N164billion) and target date set for 2015. READ ALS THIS: NAICOM List 5 drivers of Risk Based Supervision implementations However, he said the Commission has moved multiple steps in the direction of market development for the operators to latch on and earn the insurance premiums from government at all levels by insuring assets and making a complete haul from compulsory insurances, breaking the insurance fallow grounds of nano, medium, small enterprises and also reaching the excluded with microinsurance and takaful, while bancassurance is the synergy with banks to improve penetration and the bourgeoning entertainment sector the pole vault to reach the creative industry.  He further explained that the Commission has demonstrated with hands on the plough that the torrent of guidelines issued to develop the market it expects the operators to follow after to explore and expand the new markets earn the premiums and meet NAICOM set target for the industry by 2030. These activities aimed at achieving insurance market development are: market conduct guideline; bancassurance guideline; microinsurance guideline; RBS framework/ own risk assessment (ORSA); Nigerian insurance industry ICT guideline, others are, guideline on insurance of government assets, and insurance web aggregators operational guideline.  Stating that the market development initiatives is a turning wheel, Salami disclosed that this has led to establishment of liaising with target states, sensitisation across the geo-political zones for all levels of businesses with particular focus on NMSMEs, media enlightenment and sponsorship of programmes.  In leverage on the financial inclusion initiatives of the federal government, NAICOM has so far licenced four Takaful insurance companies, six microinsurance companies and currently processing four microinsurance and three Takaful applications at various approval stages, he added.  Salami revealed that in NAICOM’s market development, the Commission expects to reinvent, deliver and sustain, is insurance as a tool for stimulating growth at the federal and state levels; create over 250,000 new jobs; and improve insurance consumer trust and confidence in the sector. Other expected deliverables that the Commissions likens to aiming at the bulls’ eye he stated are; increasing insurance contribution to GDP from 0.4% to over 3.0% and lower insurance gap from 94% to 70%. READ ALSO THIS: Commission is focusing on technology to boost access to insurance, Thomas says In his words: “Market development is a costly affair and requires huge capital to keep going thus, FUNDING is critical. However, NAICOM will continue to work with all stakeholders to develop strategic, sustainable and implementable initiatives for deepening insurance penetration to enable optimal contribution to the Nigerian economy.”  Salami said, demonstrating unflinching commitment not minding the cost of funding market development, the commission will continue to work with all stakeholders to develop strategic, sustainable and implementable initiatives for deepening insurance penetration to enable optimal contribution to the Nigerian economy. 