One of the beneficiaries enjoying free dental check at the Taiwo Afolabi Rural Dental Outreach held at Molete Market, Ibadan Blood Pressure check for another market woman at the Taiwo Afolabi Rural Dental Outreach held at Molete Market, Ibadan 205 persons have enjoyed free dental and medical care at the annual Taiwo Afolabi Free Rural Dental Outreach which was held at the popular Molete market in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital.  The beneficiaries were majorly traders at the market. Doctors explaining a point to a beneficiary at the Taiwo Afolabi Rural Dental Outreach held at Molete Market, Ibadan The free medical care, which is organised by the University of Ibadan Association of Dental Students, is targeted at rural communities in Oyo State, is sponsored by SIFAX Group. Doctors showing the beneficiaries how to properly brush their teeth at the Taiwo Afolabi Rural Dental Outreach held at Molete Market, Ibadan Some of the services the beneficiaries enjoyed were Body Mass Index (BMI) measurement, blood pressure test, random blood glucose measurement, blood pressure measurement, dental clerking, examination and referrals, extractions and scaling and polishing. There was also a health talk on the imperative of maintaining good oral health. Dental examination for a market woman at the Taiwo Afolabi Rural Dental Outreach held at Molete Market, Ibadan Medical personnel deployed for the event included doctors, medical and dental students from the University College Hospital, Ibadan. One of the market women demonstrating how to the brush a teeth at the Taiwo Afolabi Rural Dental Outreach held at Molete Market, Ibadan  Mr. Olumuyiwa Akande, Head, Corporate Communications, SIFAX Group, who represented the company at the event, said the sponsorship of the medical outreach was part of the sustainability initiatives designed by the company to provide succour and support for indigent Nigerians. He said it was also in line with the company’s belief that a healthy nation translates to a productive nation.  Cross section of beneficiaries of the Taiwo Afolabi Rural Dental Outreach held at Molete Market, Ibadan Olalekan Efunkunle, President, University of Ibadan Dental Students Association, said the aim of the outreach was to create an oral health awareness and promotion of good oral health hygiene in the society. He noted that SIFAX Group’s support for the outreach in the last five years has helped to not only reach out to many rural persons but also equipped the students with adequate field knowledge needed for them to excel in dentistry. He enjoined other corporate organizations to emulate the company by partnering with the student body to take the rural health mission to more communities.