The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has confirmed that eight persons died in a communal clash between Alesi community in Ikom local government area and their neighbours, Ochon community in Obubra local government area. Mr Godwin Tepikor, South-South Zonal Coordinator of NEMA, made the confirmation during an on-the-spot assessment of the communal crisis in both communities on Saturday. Tepikor said the crisis which occurred on March 7, 2022, broke out as a result of a land dispute between the two neighbouring communities. He told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sidelines of the assessment that no fewer than 2,008 persons were affected and had been displaced from their ancestral homes. “The crisis that erupted between Ochon and Alesi communities in Obubra and Ikom local government areas claimed the lives of eight persons, four were injured on both sides and over 2,008 displaced. “Several buildings and household property were destroyed in the process. “The affected persons were scattered amongst neighbouring communities within the local government areas of the state,” he said. The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has confirmed that eight persons died in a communal clash between Alesi community in Ikom local government area and their neighbours, Ochon community in Obubra local government area. Mr Godwin Tepikor, South-South Zonal Coordinator of NEMA, made the confirmation during an on-the-spot assessment of the communal crisis in both communities on Saturday. Tepikor said the crisis which occurred on March 7, 2022, broke out as a result of a land dispute between the two neighbouring communities. He told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sidelines of the assessment that no fewer than 2,008 persons were affected and had been displaced from their ancestral homes. “The crisis that erupted between Ochon and Alesi communities in Obubra and Ikom local government areas claimed the lives of eight persons, four were injured on both sides and over 2,008 displaced. “Several buildings and household property were destroyed in the process. “The affected persons were scattered amongst neighbouring communities within the local government areas of the state,” he said.