Supporters of the All Progressives Congress from Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara State, where Governor Bello Mattawale hails from, have declared their loyalty to Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa’s faction of the party. The supporters, who were led by the APC stalwarts, Captain Halilu Haliru (retd.), and a former Director General in the state civil service, Malam Sale ST, said they decided to dump Matawalle as a result of his poor performance as governor. The decamping team was received by a chieftain of Senator Marafa’s faction of the APC, Hon. Bello Bakyasuwa. Bakyasuwa is also from Matawalle’s local government area and currently serving as the Publicity Secretary of Senator Marafa’s faction of the APC. He received the decamping team on behalf of Senator Marafa’s factional chairman, Alhaji Sirajo Maikatako, at the faction’s secretariat in Gusau, in a colourful ceremony. Speaking at the occasion, the group leader, Captain Halilu (retd.) said they were inspired by the patriotism and sincerity of Marafa, who they described as complete opposite of their kinsman, Matawalle. He described Matawalle as not being a good ambassador of the people and promised to support Marafa in bringing the desired positive leadership to the state. Captain Halilu (retd.)  said, “We are aware of the contributions of Marafa to the development of his constituency as a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The motions he moved that provided support to the state in the early days of security concerns and the job opportunities he provided to thousands of people in the Federal Civil service.” He observed that Matawalle did not do anything close to that in his time as a legislator time and as now as a governor. Halilu added that “there is nothing in Maradun to show that its son is the governor today.” The group reiterated that they were supporting Marafa even as Matawalle’s camp made deliberate advances to buy their conscience. They said taking Matawalle’s money to buy their support meant supporting the worsening security situation and absence of development in Maradun Local Government Area, which had impoverished lives especially in rural communities. In his speech, Honourable Bello Bakyasuwa used the opportunity to appreciate the APC Stalwarts from Maradun for their courageous move and assured that Marafa would continue to do everything possible to justify the confidence they reposed in him.