Leading technology company MTN Nigeria has launched its First Nationwide Voice over Long-Term Evolution (VoLTE) call service, in line with its commitment to providing access to the best communications technology and improving overall customer experience.  The service, also referred to as HD (high definition) calls, provides customers who own compatible devices with superior natural-sounding voice quality, reduced background noise and faster call connectivity.  Excited about the new service, the Chief Marketing Officer of MTN Nigeria, Adia Sowho said, “With VoLTE, MTN Nigeria continues to enhance Nigerian lives with innovative technology.  VoLTE is free to access today at your rates, from VoLTE-enabled smartphone so you can call and surf at the same time with no interruptions ever again. We move!” READ ALSO THIS: MTN Nigeria excited as CBN approve its Momo Payment Service Bank Limited Operation The MTN VoLTE call service will be charged at regular call rates. It will be available to all customers with VoLTE-enabled devices such as Tecno Phantom X, Infinix Zero X and Infinix Zero X Pro smartphones. Other device models from Samsung, Nokia, Apple, Tecno, etc. will be supported soon.  To enjoy the service, customers only need to do three (3) things: check that they have a 4G USIM; check that they are within a 4G coverage area by texting 4G to 131, and update their VOLTE smartphone to the latest software version and restart the phone. Customers without a 4G USIM can schedule an appointment by visiting https://scheduler.mtnonline.com/qwebbook/  Steps for customers to enjoy Volte service: To enjoy the service, customers only need to do three (3) things:  About MTN Nigeria MTN Nigeria is one of Africa’s largest providers of communications services, connecting 71.6 million people in communities across the country with each other and the world.  Guided by a vision to lead the delivery of a bold new digital world, MTN Nigeria’s leadership position in coverage, capacity, and innovation has remained constant, since its launch in 2001. MTN Nigeria is part of the MTN Group – a leading emerging market operator, connecting more than 250 million subscribers in 19 countries in Africa and the Middle East. To learn more about MTN Nigeria and its various initiatives, visit www.mtnonline.com