The Nigerian Senate, on Tuesday, passed for second reading a bill to establish the National Technology Industrial Park. Sponsor of the bill and former governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, while explaining the general principles of the bill, said that it would nurture young Nigerians to be technologically savvy, if it becomes a law. He also noted that it would create competitiveness as a result of the concentration of people in the same area, with the opportunity to learn and advance their technological know-how. The bill titled: “National Industrial Technology Park (Establishment) Bill 2021”, was introduced last year by Ibikunle Amosun representing Ogun Central Senatorial District. The lawmaker urged Senators to support the bill because of its inherent advantage of creating job opportunities for the younger generation, as well as its veritable platform for the promotion and commercialisation of research and development. He said, “the object of the Industrial Park shall be (i) Stimulating investment and creating employment, facilitating export growth and foreign exchange earnings, (ii) Developing industrial clusters, (iii) Eliciting knowledge transfer and technology spillover, (iv) Establishing connections to the global value chain.” Amosun cited that Industrial Technology Parks across the world are taking the lead as incubators for innovative technology and a circular economy, hence, the nation stands to benefit more as a result of its teeming population. “The establishment of Parks, such as this, makes it easier for companies and entrepreneurs to leverage the availability of resources, technical know-how, knowledge and professionalism, which can pave the way for developing and testing business and technology solutions”. According to him, it will accelerate development and diversify the country. After contributions by Senators in favour of the bill, Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan ruled on the passage of the bill. Lawan thanked the sponsor of the bill, saying that the country needed an industrial park at this time to address unemployment challenges and referred it to the relevant committee for public hearing.