The proposed Nigerian University of Technology & Management (NUTM) is pleased to announce the appointment of Babs Jolayemi Omotowa (Dr) as its Founding President, effective April 25, 2022.  Babs is a renowned global leader with more than 25 years of experience in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Norway, and Nigeria, where he has held several senior executive positions. He was born into a family of educators and is a former Global President of the UK Institute of Procurement and Supply in London. He is a seasoned professional in the upstream and midstream oil and gas industry. He brings an industry background to the office of the NUTM President that is patterned after many highly ranked universities around the world that are broadening their horizon by appointing accomplished business leaders as their presidents. READ ALSO THIS: https://www.amehnews.com/experts-urge-stakeholders-to-explore-cbns-n250bn-lpg-intervention-fund/ Prior to joining NUTM, Babs was CEO/MD of Nigeria LNG Limited, where he led NLNG to become the highest corporate tax-paying organization in Sub-Saharan Africa and earned record revenues ($40Bn during tenure). He was instrumental in the provision of $12Mn engineering laboratory support for six universities in Nigeria and N60Bn support to the FGN towards the construction of the Bonny-Bodo Road. He also led the Shell upstream energy transition strategy, and delivered a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions towards the company’s climate change ambitions.  As President of NUTM, Babs will be responsible for strategy execution and establishing NUTM as the leading higher learning institution in Africa that is focused on technology and management. Making the announcement, the Chairman, Governing Board, NUTM, Dr. Okechukwu Enelemah, said: “After two successful cohorts of our pilot initiative, the NUTM Scholars Program (NSP), we are delighted to consolidate our commitment to delivering our mission with this appointment.”  Babs’ appointment represents a significant milestone in NUTM’s journey. The institution’s mission of delivering higher education excellence and nurturing of innovative and entrepreneurial leaders to create impact in Africa, will be enabled by his transformative leadership and core values of integrity, excellence, courage, and social responsibility.  To learn more about NUTM, please visit www.nutmng.org.   About NUTM: The Nigerian University of Technology and Management (NUTM) is a pioneering higher education initiative to identify and train the next generation of leaders in technology and management for Africa. NUTM will strive for excellence in technology and management and become a hub for best-in-class learning and research. It will focus on areas in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, and Management in its academic offerings at the undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral levels. NUTM aspires to be among the top five universities in Africa and the best in Nigeria in the next ten years.