– Conversion of NSTC Okoloba to NMU campus in consideration.  – Experts in Nigeria for Modular floating dockyard deployment.  L-R:Executive Director Operations, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Shehu Ahmed; Director General NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh; Vice Chancellor NMU, Prof. Emmanuel Adigo; Representative, Chairman of Governing Council NMU, Alhaji Bello Dukku Salihu and Executive Director, Maritime Labour and Cabotage Services, NIMASA, Victor Ochei during a courtesy visit by the Management of NMU to the NIMASA headquarters. The Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh has restated the Agency’s commitment to development of the Nigerian Maritime University,(NMU) Okerenkoko Delta State. He stated this when a delegation from the University paid a visit to NIMASA Management in Lagos and noted that despite handing over the university to the National University Commission,(NUC) the Agency is committed to supporting NMU by completing projects it initiated in the University. While advising the Management of NMU to  seek national and  international accreditations to  ensure certificates from the school enjoy global recognition, Jamoh urged NMU management to seek collaboration with the World Maritime University,(WMU) amongst other specialized higher institutions of learning. “Nigeria Maritime University can conveniently bridge the gap in terms of human capacity deficiency in the Nigerian Maritime sector. All you need to do as management is to seek collaboration with similar specialized institutions and ensure that NMU certificates enjoy global recognition. Our goal is to seek top level manpower development from NMU instead of the current situation where institutions abroad are preferred to Nigerian based.”  The NIMASA DG noted that despite handing over the University to the National University Commission, the Agency still makes budgetary provisions for NMU to ensure the completion of projects NIMASA initiated in the university.  “Our belief is that a well-funded NMU will greatly enhance youth employment and engagement particularly in the Niger Delta Region of the country. Our financial commitment to NMU is based on principle of capacity development.” He said.  Commenting on the Modular Floating Dock, the NIMASA boss noted that experts from the manufacturers of the Floating Dock have been in Nigeria for over a month working on the nitty gritty of deploying the dockyard. He also informed the NMU Management that the facility will be available for students from the University for practical experience when it becomes functional. “Experts from the firm that built the Modular Floating Dockyard have been in Nigeria for quite a while now, providing technical support and working on how to deploy the dockyard productively. When I gave them a deadline recently, I was given professional counsel not to rush the deployment. If we have waited this long, we might as well wait a while longer and ensure we don’t regret a deployment in a hurry. Our students from NMU and other institutions will be welcomed for practical experience in mechanical, electrical, welding, and other areas when we begin full operation.” he said.  Dr Jamoh also disclosed that a proposal to convert the NIMASA Science and Technical college Okoloba to a campus of the Nigerian Maritime University is under consideration. “Our facilities at the Science and Technical College Okoloba in Delta State are grossly being underutilized. A proposal to hand over the facility to the Management of the University is under consideration.”  On his part, the Chairman of the NMU governing board who was represented by Alhaji Bello Dukku Salihu said that, “the school is in the process of signing an MoU with the Ghana Maritime University commended NIMASA for constantly supporting the University. He and team members who spoke expressed delight at clarification about the Modular Floating Dockyard which they had perceived belonged to the school.” With better understanding about the history and technicalities involved in the Floating dockyard, we are satisfied with the steps NIMASA management is taking”, the representative of the board chairman of NMU posited.  According to the statement sent to The Ameh News and endorsed by Osagie Edward, Assistant Director, Public Relations of  NIMASA saying  