The Central Bank Of Nigeria Over The Week has Granted MTN Nigeria Final Approval For Momo Payment Service Bank Limited To Commence Operations in the country.  The management of the MTN Nigeria Communications Plc through the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) notified the investing community that MTN Nigeria Communications Plc (MTN Nigeria) announces the receipt of a letter dated April 8, 2022 from the CBN addressed to Momo PSB conveying Final approval to commence operations.  The date of commencement will be communicated to the CBN in accordance with its requirements, it added. According to the statement excerpted from the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) website which was endorsed by UFo Ukpah, the Company Secretary saying  We refer to our notification issued on November 5, 2021 in which we communicated receipt of the approval in principle from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for Momo Payment Service Bank Limited (Momo PSB).  “MTN Nigeria affirms its commitment towards the financial inclusion agenda of the CBN and the Federal Republic of Nigeria and we are excited of this opportunity to support its fulfillment.”  With this approval, MTN Nigeria will be joining Moneymaster PSB, a subsidiary of Glo and 9PSB, a subsidiary of 9mobile, to operate in the fintech space.  Meanwhile, PSBs are expected to function in rural regions and areas where Nigerians do not have bank accounts. They are also expected to have at least 50 per cent physical access points in rural areas.  About MTN Nigeria: MTN Nigeria is one of Africa’s largest providers of communications services, connecting approximately 69 million people in communities across the country with each other and the world. Guided by a belief that everybody deserves the benefits of a modern connected like, MTN Nigeria’s leadership position in coverage, capacity and innovation has remained constant since its launch in 2001. MTN Nigeria is part of the MTN Croup – a multinational telecommunications group, which operates in 19 countries in Africa and the Middle East. Website: www.mtnonline.com