Director General of the organisation, Mallam Farouk Salim stated this in his welcome remarks, warned Nigerian importers against continued import of fake and substandard products into the country, insisting that Nigerians are the problem of Nigeria and that it would take the efforts and resolve of the citizens to address these challenges.  Salim stated this during a one-day stakeholders’ sensitisation forum titled Standards Organisation of Nigeria National Stakeholders Sensitisation Forum for Maritime Operators with the theme: “Standards Save life, grow Economy”, organised by SON in Lagos, on Thursday April 14, 2022  “Today’s forum is an indication that we are gradually returning to our usual regular interactions with you to promote greater understanding and collaboration between us as representing the public institutions and you the private sector operators.  Salim observed that despite the fact that most of the blames for the current state of Nigeria have been placed at the door-step of politicians, many Nigerians in their small ways have contributed to the socio-economic and political woes of the country and that it would take collective efforts to rid the country of these woes.  “As patriotic Nigerians, growing our nation’s economy should be through partnership and collaboration. We need to join forces to “kill” sub-standard products before they kill the country’s economy and affect us all negatively  “In line with international best practices, SON has always advocated and encouraged the active involvement of stakeholders through partnerships and collaboration in coordinating standards development and implementation through conformity assessment programmes. READ ALSO THIS: Stakeholders attributes influx of substandard goods into Nigeria to absence of SON at seaports He said, we believe that one major way of bringing the maritime players on board the standard and quality voyage is through sensitisations and enlightenment programmes like this, which provides avenue for cross-fertilisation of ideas, views, suggestions and solutions on how to move the nation’s economy forward.  SON DG noted that one of the major objectives of this forum is to enhance your understanding and knowledge on SON’s processes and procedures especially in the electronic product registration and SONCAP schemes, while also seeking your cooperation in voluntary compliance in our collective interest.  He added that compliance to standards not only save lives but helps grow the economy. This is the theme of our interactive engagement today, he noted.  Meanwhile, one of the key stakeholders in the entire trade supply chain in Nigeria maritime have lamented the seeming uncontrolled influx of fake and substandard goods into the country, saying this is dangerous and injurious to the local industry, especially at a time the Federal Government is making efforts towards diversifying the economy from over- dependence on crude oil revenue.   Also speaking at the event is the National Vice President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents ANLCA, Dr Kayode Farinto, while delivering his paper entitled: “Juxtaposing the absence of SON from the seaports and the worsening influx of substandard products”, noted that it was necessary the agency returned to the seaports immediately.  He further argued that the continued absence of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria SON, the country’s apex standards bureau from the seaports and other entry points has further exacerbated the influx of these unwholesome products, a development that urgently requires that the organisation returns to the seaports to curb this menace.   Dr Farinto noted that the volume of substandard goods that flood the country’s market, has become increasingly dangerous and unsustainable which apart from weakening the local manufacturing industry, also poses a great danger to the citizens and the country’s economy.  Citing the instances of substandard building materials including electrical wires and other components, which have led to outbreak of fire in homes and offices, leading to the death and maiming of scores of Nigerians, he warned that if the country does not kill substandard products, such products will definitely kill Nigeria.  ANLCA boss recalled that, SON has over the years made efforts to standardise products imported into the country, which also led to the introduction of the Standards Conformity Assessment SONCAP certificate, which is a mandatory offshore document obtained from all major countries where Nigeria imports across Europe, America and Asia.  According to him, based on the expectation that most of the trading public in the country would comply with the SONCAP requirement and the need to streamline the number of government agencies operating at the seaports to enhance speedy inspection and release of imported cargo that the then Minister of Finance, Dr Ngozi Okonjo –Iweala ordered some agencies including SON to leave the seaports.  He however argued that the worsening spate of influx of substandard goods into the country reinforces the argument that the government should review the policy that removed the agency from the seaports and major entry points if Nigeria must win this war against fake and substandard products imported into the country.  “SON was asked to leave the seaports due to the erroneous belief that it would enhance speed and efficiency in the inspection and release of cargo but current realities have shown that that belief was not true and needs a review. Therefore, if Nigeria must win this war against substandard products, SON must as a matter of urgency return to the seaports to enforce government’s control. SON should also be on the portal of the Nigeria Customs Service”, he argued.  He however warned that when SON returns to the seaport, it should not allow its operatives to seize and confiscate consignments have been duly examined, cleared and released about 50 metres from the main seaport gates. 