One of the two pregnant women among the passengers kidnapped during last month’s attack on a Kaduna-bound train by terrorists has been delivered of a baby, last night. Also, the terrorists who attacked and abducted the passengers have released four different pictures of their victims, numbering 62. The gunmen had on March 28 ambushed the train heading for Kaduna from the nation’s capital city after bombing its rail track. broadcast arm, quoted the gang as insisting that they were not after a ransom, but an exchange of the abducted passengers with their commanders who are allegedly in government custody. Nine persons, including a young medical doctor were killed during the attack, scores were injured and over 62 other passengers kidnapped. The TV station further quoted a family source as confirming that one of the two pregnant women among the kidnapped victims, had given birth in the terrorists’ den with the help of doctors invited by the gang. Sources said the terrorists are organised and coordinated because of the way the were able to get medical supplies into the forest, a development they described as still shocking to both government and security operatives. Four photos released by the terrorists and sighted by showed the kidnapped victims in four groups, the first showing 23 persons including five children and 18 women. In the second image, 17 men, including a man who looked like an Indian were seen, while the third photograph showed six of the victims in sitting position, with a bandage wrapped in one of the victim’s right leg. The fourth image depicted another group of 16 men in a sitting position. Recall that the terrorists had released a video about a week after the attack, showing the moment they were about to release the Managing Director of Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Ali-Hassan to his family. the families of the kidnapped victims have also written the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj.-Gen. Mohammed Munguno (rtd), demanding a status report on the state of their loved ones.