Passenger Step Unit Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc has boosted her fleet of Ground Support Equipment (GSE) with more ultra-modern equipment. In a statement sent to The AmehNews and endorsed by Uansohia Vanessa Adetola (Mrs), Manager, Corporate Communications, Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc (SAHCO) saying The new fleet of equipment acquired includes ten Passenger Step Units that were manufactured by Mallaghan which is a renowned aviation industry manufacturer and supplier of highly acclaimed Ground Support Equipment. According to her, the Passenger Step Units have the capacity to provide passenger access to a wide range of aircrafts which included B747, B777, B767, A340, A380, A320 etc. Also, she disclosed that the equipment is fitted with proximity sensors which are devices that shuts down the equipment engines when they are positioned too close to the aircraft to prevent aircraft damage. “Another acquired equipment in the new fleet is an Air Starter Unit (ASU) which is used to supply necessary quantity of air at a specified pressure to aircrafts while it is parked. The A.S.U was acquired from Guinault in France and has an eco-friendly engine while the chassis is made from steel to reduce the rate of corrosion or wear, also it has a safety device attached to the fuel gauge to enable it shut down when the fuel is less than 30 litres to prevent engine damage due to fuel shortage. Furthermore, Mrs Adetola, noted that two units of Airmarrel High Loader LAM 7000 were also part of the latest acquired fleet of GSE. The LAM 7000 has the capacity of loading about 7,000kg of pallets or container at a time. This equipment is also furnished with proximity sensors and were procured from Airmarrel, a G.S.E producing giant from France. It is also furnished with electrical and hand emergency pumps which can be used during emergency procedure.Highloader LAM 700 In a related development, she said SAHCO Engineering team has produced 20 baggage carts from locally sourced materials. These equipment that has been dispatched to SAHCO’s Abuja station were produced according to European standard with huge improvements on their European counterparts, she added. “The carts were produced to be able to carry more baggage, rugged side guides with heavy duty hinges to customize their functionality to suit Nigerian baggage peculiarities. Also, they can maneuver at 90 degrees unlike their European counter parts. These carts were produced thereby saving SAHCO a lot of foreign exchange. Speaking about the equipment, the Managing Director/CEO of SAHCO, Basil Agboarumi said the company’s Management decision to constantly invest in modern Ground Handling Equipment is due to the fact that SAHCO is always pursuing excellent services to clients. “As always, we are an aviation Ground Handling provider and what we stand for and want to be known for is not just to provide services but to provide excellent Ground Handling Services and we have an understanding as an organization that for us to be able to provide that kind of services, we must have staff that are well trained in what they do and have the right equipment to work with.” SAHCO is a Publicly Listed Aviation Ground Handling Service provider that is present in all the commercially operated Airports in Nigeria which are Lagos, Abuja, Kano, Port Harcourt, Owerri, Calabar, Ilorin, Enugu, Maiduguri, Gombe, Ibadan, Jos, Asaba, Benin, Bauchi, Uyo, Sokoto, Kaduna, Yola, Bayelsa, Warri and Anambra.