How, management of Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria, (APCON) has uncovered a hidden wrong message in Sterling Bank,s “Agege Bread/Jesus’ comparison Easter message. According to a terse statement made available to media on Monday, April 18th, 2022, the apex advertising regulator said that, “APCON will take necessary actions to ensure that Sterling Bank is sanctioned for the exposure of such offensive advertisement according to law and that no religious belief or faith is ridiculed or any blasphemous advertisement exposed in any issue.” A statement signed by the Registrar/Chief Executive of APCON, Dr. Olalekan Fadolapo further stated that , APCON has observed with displeasure the insensitive and provocative Easter celebration advertisement by Sterling Bank Plc, which compared the resurrection of Christ with Agege bread. Dr Fadolapo said, “The distasteful advertisement was neither submitted nor approved for exposure by the Advertising Standards Panel (ASP), the statutory panel charged with the responsibility of ensuring that advertisements conform to the prevailing laws of the federation as well as the code of ethics of advertising in Nigeria.” We learnt that sources told The Industry that management of Sterling Bank has issued queried to the communications/brand management department of the Bank to explain how such advertisement was allowed to go out. Further finding revealed that the brand management/corporate communications department engaged a ‘roadside’ consultant to create the copy that has been found to have breached the advertising law in Nigeria. The bank has also run afoul of the law by not submitting the copy to ASP for approval before exposure. In what you may call quick reaction on the issue, an expert in the field Mr Nosakhare Uwadiae, Esq- Media, Advertising, Commercial and Intellectual Property Law expert tags *ATTACHED REFER;* saying I am of the Opinion that though this action by Apcon is Commendable, Apcon style generally is reactive and not proactive . Uwadiae went further to said APCON needs to be more proactive. For Example, since the new AISOP regulations came out, how many STAKEHOLDERS parliament has APCON held specifically to dialogue on Progress on ENFORCEMENT of AISOP. He also pointed out that to show;
A.Who has complied.
B.Reason for non compliance.
C.How to Increase compliance
D.More Engagement on AISOP . It is over 6 months since AISOP came into being and there is no formal report to the industry on compliance and penalties for non compliance,Uwadiae reiterated. He said can this Sterling Bank (Advertiser) be used as a case study to further ensure compliance with AISOP. “Which of the articles in AISOP are receiving more levels of Compliance and why. Is there a compliance unit in Apcon? Uwadiae asked to know the high levels of Compliance with AISOP will lower levels of non compliance with Apcon regulations on contents of Advert. For Example, one of the Articles clearly stated that all Stakeholders must comply with the Copyrights Laws in Nigeria, he highlighted. He said how many of us have DELIBERATELY complied with that? Beyond wielding the Big Stick, APCON should use this Sterling Bank case to push compliance to AISOP and General Advertising regulation such that it raises compliance level astronomically. Lest AISOP becomes a PAPER TIGER. APCON should use this case to drive home the BIGGER PICTURE not just react to the advert, he advised. “It is a litmus test for APCON and AISOP. The AmehNews also learnt that after Sterling Bank Plc has been slammed on Twitter after its Easter message to Nigerians was considered offensive and insensitive. The message had read, “Like Agege Bread, He rose,” with a photo showing bread and a “Happy Easter” caption. This was considered offensive by many who wondered if Sterling Bank was equating bread with Jesus who is the reason for the Easter season. The bank later pulled down the message from its social media pages and issued another one that said, “Blessed is the one whose transgressions are forgiven, whose sins are covered. We humbly celebrate His resurrection, the defeat of death and the hope of salvation.” The new message was accompanied by a flyer that contained an apology which many also found offensive and insincere. “…let the one who has never sinned cast the first stone. For our recent errors, we sincerely apologise. Forgive us in the spirit of Easter,” the bank wrote.