The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba has ordered the dismissal of no fewer than nine policemen over allegations that they were the ones demanding wage increase and planning to lead the rank and file into an industrial action. The officers demanded that their minimum wage should not be lower than N100,000, asking why operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) receive much higher wages than they do. In an attempt to stop the strike slated for March 26, the Inspector General reached out to all commands and police formations across the nation, appealing, making promises and assuring his men of improved welfare going forward. Though the strike and nationwide protest did not take place on March 26, the police authorities went ahead to arrest nine officers, who have now been dismissed. Among them are two Inspectors, five Sergeants and two Police Constables. Their sack was conveyed through a police message signed by the Commissioner of Police Provost, Force headquarters, Abuja on April 4. The police wireless message said the men were dismissed following their orderly room trial “for planning and coordinating a strike within the ranks and file of the police.” They were reportedly identified and subsequently arrested after their telephone calls were tracked. The dismissed policemen were identified as: AP/ NP 287568 – Insp Amos Nagurah; AP/No. 245800 – Insp Nanoll Lamak; F/No. 495378 – Sgt Emmanuel Isah; F/No. 442680 – Sgt Franklin Agughalu; F/No. 508168 – Sgt Adesina Ismail; F/No. 271367 – Sgt Onoja Onuche; F/No. 508282 – Sgt Osoteku Ademola; F/No. 525839 – Police Constable Ehighamhen Favour Ebele and F/No. 528222 – Police Constable Ubong Inem. They were sacked for alleged “discreditable conduct, improper conduct, breach of confidence, to wit: planning, organising, coordinating industrial strike within the ranks of the Nigeria Police Force.” As a result, the signal addressed to all police commands said, “the Inspector-General has approved their dismissal from service.” Commissioners of police commands and formations concerned were asked to de-kit the men and eject them from the police accommodation and facilities and to “delete subjects from IPPIS payroll immediately.” “The commissioner, welfare to delete subjects from police nominal roll accordingly,” the IGP ordered. Our correspondent gathered that the dismissal of the nine cops is already brewing bad blood within the ranks of police operatives, who said the act was an indication that the IG has no plan to improve their welfare. It was gathered that some cops are already planning to turn in their resignation letters, while others may revisit the need for an industrial action.