L- R: MD/CEO Universal Insurance Plc, Benedict Ujoatuonu; MD/CEO African alliance Insurance Plc, Mrs. Joyce Ojemudia; GMD Cornerstone Insurance Plc, Mr. Ganiyu Musa; Managing Director/ Editor-in-chief BusinessToday Communication, Nkechi Naeche-Esezobor, MD/CEO, Access Pension PFC, Idu Okwuosa-Okeahialam and Chief Consultant, B. Adedipe Associates Limited, Dr. Abiodun Adedipe at the 6th BusinessToday annual Conference held yesterday at Radisson Blu Hotel Ikeja, Lagos. Mrs Joyce Ojemudia, Special Guest of Honour and MD/CEO, African Alliance Insurance PLC noted that Maintaining Trust is very fundamental to today’s business environment and a solid customer service is imperative to achieve this. Satisfactory customer service is vital to the existence of any business including insurance and pensions, she said. MD/CEO, African Alliance Insurance PLC in her Speech Address Delivered at the 6th Business Today Conference Held on Tuesday April 5, 2022 at Ikeja, Lagos Ojemudia pointed out that Therefore, the theme for today’s conference – Prioritizing Excellent Customer Services in Insurance and Pension Businesses, is very apt and timely. She maintain that in today’s Insurance and Pensions Businesses, which are businesses of promise (intangible), customer experience is critical to business performance, growth and sustainability. The consequences of below standard or poor customer experience can easily be shared through social media, she stressed. According to her this is so fragile that a poorly handled claim, a slight error of a staff captured on a mobile phone, a nonchalant phone call, or a laid back email can be escalated into a brand-damaging crisis. READ ALSO THIS: experts-in-insurance-gathers-to-brainstorm-on-prioritizing-excellent-customer-services-in-insurance-and-pension-businesses-at-businesstoday-annual-conf-tomorrow-april-5 “Furthermore, Prioritizing customer experience is not just about reducing the risk of customer service mishaps. It is indeed a way for companies in competitive markets like ours, to distinguish their brands. Just as Shep Hyken, world renowned Customer Service and Experience Expert once said “finding a way to make the customer feel it is all about them is a powerful strategy that will build repeat business and even customer loyalty.” Improving customer experience and satisfaction can be a drive for profitable growth in business. Ojemudia stressed that in order for us as insurers and pension businesses to functionally prioritize customer experience, we need to think from the customer’s perspective.  To carry out our business with the understanding that a customer does not draw a distinction between an agent, a marketer, a claims adjuster or brand manager, as all represent the insurer in the event of an accident or a critical situation that requires our service. Today’s customers are very demanding and value-centric, she acknowledge, so there is a need for the insurance and pensions businesses to brace up and be continually dynamic in their approach in terms of quality service and value creation. Ojemudia commends Nkechi Naeche, Journalist, Publisher Business Today, and our host for her contributions to our industries which haven’t gone unnoticed.
You have contributed richly through Business today conference which you started with the aim of deepening penetration in the industry, she reiterated. MD/CEO, African Alliance Insurance PLC affirmed saying I would like to boldly state that this conference has exceeded our expectations. Today, it has become a conference that drives quality conversations and created a platform where solutions are derived from same, she said. “Through your awards platform you have recognized hardworking professionals for their contributions in the industry and by so doing, you have inspired many.
You have created a safe space where interactions amongst various stakeholders is deemed possible and easy”.