.. Visits Agency’s Synoptic Station in Abakiliki,  The director general of the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) Prof Mansur Matazu says the agency is collaborating with the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning on the implementation of the Food System Transformation Pathway in Nigeria under the umbrella of food systems pathways Speaking on Leveraging Technology for
Effective Agriculture:
The Story of a Weatherman at the ongoing 21st edition of the Joint Planning Board(JPB) and National Council on Development Planning(NCDP) meetings holding at Abakiliki, Ebonyi State, Prof Matazu said NiMet was actively participating in the Implementation Committee on Weather aimed at delivering on Priority One (Regular Collection and Dissemination of information on Weather) of the Food Systems Pathway. He said through the collaboration, that NiMet aimed to develop Weather and Climate Content for dissemination, by using the existing NiMet social media platforms (Twitter, Instagram, Facebook) for
information sharing. According to Prof Matazu, the agency has embarked on the deployment of bulk SMS for weather and climate information and disseminate weather information through television, radio and print media with a robust mobile application that was simple to use with option ffo indigenous language. “In NiMet, we have moved from just generating forecasts to producing forecasts wwit implications. By this, we mean, Impact-Based Early Warnings” “Our clients and stakeholders are not only foretold but also forewarned of likely impacts of the predicted weather and climate events” According to Prof Matazu, in agriculture, weather and climate information provided a smarter and wise way of executing activities in order to minimize risks and reduce losses. He noted that throughout the agricultural value-chain, weather and climate information was critical while encouraging clients and stakeholders to embrace the partnership with them to improve food security in the nation. Matazu noted that NiMet predicted 2022 dry spell for the month of May into June indicated with a mild ddr spell of less than 8 days in Taraba, Nasarawa, parts of Oyo, Niger, Ekiti Plateau, Ogun, Osun, Edo and Anambra states. He added it that moderate dry spell that was llikel to persist for up to 15 days was predicted over parts of Adamawa, Benue, KKogi Ekiti, Kwara, Niger, FCT, Kaduna, Sokoto, Kebbi and Gombe. The Director-General later paid an unscheduled visit to the Agency’s Synoptic Station in Abakiliki, Ebonyi State to monitor and evaluate ongoing projects at the station. He applauded staff at the station and encouraged them to be diligent at their workplace as the Agency will continue to provide the necessary tools to ensure a conducive working environment for them and every other staff of the Agency.