 L-R: Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Surendran Chemmenkotil receiving a plaque from Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, during his courtesy visit to the state house Marina, Lagos on Tuesday, January 25th, 2022 The Executive Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has commended employees of Airtel Nigeria for donating the sum of N20 million from their personal income to support indigent residents of Lagos State during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020  Sanwo-Olu who was speaking today (25/01/2002) when the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Surendran Chemmenkotil, paid him a courtesy visit, said he appreciated the initiative and gesture of Airtel employees when they came forward during the heat of the pandemic to support the State government.  “I thank Airtel employees for their support during the heat of the pandemic and I am glad that we are now exiting the 4th wave of the Coronavirus pandemic. Although Lagos has been the epicentre of the Coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria, we will be able to eradicate the virus from Lagos,” he said. The Governor who wished the Airtel CEO a successful tenure, also noted that the Lagos State Government will continue to promote and leverage on technology to accelerate economic growth as well as create prosperity for residents and indigenes of the State, saying technology is very important and a strong enabler in realizing the government’s agenda. L-R: Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, CMC Connect, Mr. Yomi Badejo- Okusanya; Head Public Relations, Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Erhumu Bayagbon; Director, Airtel Business, Ogo Ofomata; Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Surendran Chemmenkotil; Lagos State Governor, Mr.Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Deputy Governor Lagos State, Mr. Obafemi Hamzat;  Secretary to the Lagos State Government, Mrs. Folashade Sherifat Jaji and Vice President (VP), Retail Sales, Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Dokun Oye during a courtesy visit to the Governor at the state house Marina, Lagos on Tuesday, January 25th, 2022. “A priority is the Lagos Smart City project as we are very persuaded to push forward technology. Many young people see technology as a platform to create, innovate and express their talents and we have a role as government to continue to create the enabling environment for this to thrive,” he noted. Speaking earlier, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Nigeria, Surendran Chemmenkotil, commended Sanwo-Olu for creating an enabling environment for business to thrive in the State, noting that Airtel will continue to collaborate with the State government to create opportunities for residents and indigenes of the State. “Historically, we have enjoyed a robust relationship with Lagos and we wish to continue to collaborate with Lagos State to empower more residents and indigenes of the State. Mr. Governor, Lagos is important to our operations in Nigeria. As major stakeholders, we will continue to seek collaborative opportunities with Lagos State just as we will continue to empower and support the indigenes and residents of Lagos State,” he said. The Airtel CEO was accompanied by the company’s Enterprise (Airtel Business Director), Ogo Ofomata; Vice President, Retail Sales, Oladokun Oye and Head of Public Relations, Erhumu Bayagbon