…..if you must borrow, borrow for anything that is investment in nature. The Chief Consultant of B. Adedipe Associates Limited. “The freedom to take risk is on the back of a vibrant insurance sector that brings us to involve more interactions between government agencies and the insurance sector.”  The Chief Consultant of B. Adedipe Associates Limited, Dr. Biodun Adedipe, said the freedom to take risk is on the back of a vibrant insurance sector, so the conversation should be how do we make that sector vibrant and that brings us to involve more interactions between government agencies and the insurance sector, so that all the stakeholders constantly are engaging and so whatever is needed to be done to make us deepen insurance, the government will keep making that happen.”   Speaking at a media parley sponsored by Boff Insurance Brokers Limited and B. Adedipe Associates Limited, in Lagos, Adedipe, noted that, all the stakeholders constantly are engaging and so whatever is needed to be done to make us deepen insurance, the government will keep making that happen.  He said: “For the insurance sector to grow, government need also to be responsible to its insurance obligations which talks about paying premium. There also must be need for flexibility and also ensuring that compulsory insurance is enforced because enforcement had always been an issue. “If the government is responsible and put a lot of effort into enforcement, then what we have today as compulsory insurance we can actually create more value from. And when insurance sector is vibrant, it will galvanize businesses and individuals to take risk and that is how economies grow. Adedipe has challenged the Government to provide leadership by showing concern and responsibility to its insurance obligations Speaking further  on the economy, he said that as the price of crude oil in the international market continue to rise, the Federal Government should use the surplus to either reduce the budget deficit or use it to build infrastructure. Adedipe stated that the price of crude oil has been favourable to the economy. Adedipe said: “the price of crude has been favourable to us.  It is either you use the gain to reduce the deficit, or alternatively, you use that gain to build infrastructure, which ultimately will also increase government revenue.” He also warned that the forthcoming election could create liquidity pressures in the economy as there will be too much money in circulation. According to him, “In pre election years,  politicians spend a lot of money and that creates liquidity pressure.  You have so much money circulating and that stands to put pressure on prices, so it will be expected this year that there will be inflationary pressure.” Adedipe also decried the high volume of imports against exports in the country. To him,  “In recent years, imports value in Nigeria had become far greater than exports. Yes we export crude oil, we export condensates, as well as associated gas. Inspite of that, we have been importing more than exporting and that has been creating employment for other countries to the detriment of our country.” In his opinion, the Chief Consultant, Adedipe noted that, there is nothing wrong with borrowing, but don’t borrow to buy food, don’t borrow for consumption, if you must borrow, borrow for anything that is investment in nature. He pointed out that “We produce crude oil but don’t refined.”