The Committed Collective, the world’s ﬁrst network of Impact-driven creative agencies from Africa and the Nordics, is oﬃcially launched on February 14, 2022, which coincides with the celebration of St. Valentine’s Day. The Committed Collective comprises of three leading independent agencies from three different countries: Måndag from Finland, Noah’s Ark Communications from Nigeria 5ive Africa from Kenya. Committed Collective is a growing group of independent creative agencies devoted to helping clients focus on the things that matter and impact society. The group’s aim is to harness the combined forces its current and future members to solve sustainability challenges facing businesses across the globe. Speaking on the official launch of the network, the Managing Director/Chief Creative Officer, Noah’s Ark Communications Limited, Lanre Adisa, explained that it was symbolic to officially launch the network on St. Valentine’s Day as the group is a gift of love to Mother Earth by supporting companies in their drive to create values that are impactful, sustainable and purposeful in line with current realities beyond making profits. “We’ve entered a new phase in business. We call it the impact era. It is a profound shift in how companies define their reason for being and how they create new value”, he said. In his remarks, Chief Executive Officer, 5ive Africa, Jonah Otieno, stated that the group remains firmly committed to assisting companies in thriving in the new era considering the different challenges confronting businesses in today’s world.  Otieno said, “In a world plagued by climate disasters, health crises, social emergencies, and extinction events, companies have a new role to play. Purpose, sustainability, and positive impact are the only ways you can be meaningful for consumers, customers, citizens, employees, and investors alike. With our unique network, we provide you the best creative talent for accelerating sustainability and real positive impact, both locally and globally”. Speaking on their mode of operations of the network, the Creative Director of Måndag, Arto Sivonen, revealed that members would be working with private companies and governments by deploying their best creative talents to understand the challenges and opportunities available to drive sustainable changes and impact.
Sivonen explained further that the group would take the lead in creating content that would make a significant difference in society and help move businesses forward.