The National Insurance Commission host Kano State Committee on Implementation of Compulsory Insurances in the state to a 3 days retreat in Abuja. The Committee is headed by the Secretary to the Kano State Government Alhaji Usman Alhaji. The Governor of Kano State, His Excellency, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje during his remarks at this maiden retreat of the State Technical Committee for the Implementation of Compulsory Insurance Policy in the State said “I would like to take this opportunity to extend my sincere gratitude and appreciation to the organizers of this Retreat (National Insurance Commission), for your painstaking effort towards making this important Retreat a great success.   As you are aware, Dr Ganduje said we have appointed 18-man State Technical Committee for Implementation of Insurance Policies in the State, under the Chairmanship of the Secretary to the State Government with a view to ensuring effective implementation of insurance policies, which we hope would facilitate our revenue generation drive.   The Opening Ceremony of The 3-Day Retreat For The Members Of The State Technical Committee For Implementation Of Compulsory Insurance Policy In Kano State Organized By National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) At Rockview Hotel, Abuja On Thursday, February 10, 2022  “It is our hope that the three days will be fruitful and you will be able to make good use of what you have gained during the retreat in improving the mode of insurance policies in our dear State for the betterment of people.  He noted that we learned from the beginning of the retreat that, the theme of the retreat is no doubt geared towards improving the socio-economic well-being of our teeming populace and at the same vein, improving the State Internally Generated Revenues (IGR) through implementation of insurance policies in the State.  In his words: I would like to categorically tell you that, the State Government under my leadership would continue to support NAICOM’s activities in Kano State, stressed that the State Government has allocated a befitting office accommodation for the Commission at Sheik Nasiru Kabara Housing Estate, which will be used as your regional office in Kano.  From L – R: (1) Hon. Mahmud Tofa, Special Assistant to the Kano State Governor on Intergovernmental Affairs. (2) The CFI. (3) Kano State SSG and Chairman of the Implementation Committee Alhaji Usman Alhaji and (4) Alh. Sabiu Bello, Deputy Commissioner for Insurance Technical. He further revealed that our expectation to the Technical Committee Members who are presently attending this august Retreat is to explore mechanisms that will in the ultimate translate into changing the tenets of revenue generation for sustainable implementation of meaningful developmental projects and policies for the overall good of our people.   “Our Administration would continue to support this noble cause, which we always cherish based on its substance in achieving a well-articulated and coherent mode of revenue generation. I therefore implore you to sustain the support and cooperation you always extend to us, he added.  Mr. Federal Commissioner for insurance, Governor Ganduje said, let me use this opportunity to mention the modest achievements recorded by our Administration within the span of Six and a half years, particularly in restructuring the State Board of Internal Revenue, which is now Kano State Internal Revenue Service, the employment of over 600 talented youth to KIRS among others.