 The core of our business strategy is unlocking opportunities for value creation in the Nigerian and African informal sector while creating innovative and accessible products and solutions within the formal sector. VFD Group Plc, has recently acquired a 5% stake in the Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX) – making VFD Group one of its majority shareholders in align with its strategic vision of building Africa’s first diverse business ecosystem, industry-agnostic investment company. The Ameh News recalled that post-demutualisation shareholding arrangement was arrived at by converting the existing dealing members of the Exchange to institutional shareholders and ordinary members to individual shareholders. “Shareholdings were on equal basis in the immediate conversion period with each institutional shareholder holding 6.01 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each while each individual shareholder held 2.44 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Thus, each institutional shareholder held 0.3 per cent equity stake while each individual shareholder held 0.1 per cent equity stake, in line with the current membership-share conversion ratio of 78 per cent for dealing members and 22 per cent for ordinary members.” The NGX Group Plc is a leading integrated market infrastructure in Africa, that services the largest economy in Africa and is strengthening the competitiveness of African economies to achieve global prosperity. As a key player in the continent’s financial markets, the Group plays an active role in shaping the future of the markets through its investment in business innovation and technology. The NGX Group provides a wide range of services including listing and trading securities, licensing, market data solutions, ancillary technology, regulation, real estate, and more through its wholly-owned subsidiaries – NGX Exchange, NGX REGCO, and NGX RELCO. According to the Group Managing Director of VFD Group, Nonso Okpala, our investment in the pioneer exchange company of Nigeria is a strategic play in our ecosystem build, that ensures we are driving global prosperity by investing in businesses that have potential, helping them maximize their potential and supporting the platform that can help portray them to the world. Our investment in the NGX Group as the exchange company of choice is due to the wide range of services offered and how they are positioned for growth.  “Our interest in the NGX, is borne out of our desire to be a key player within the exchange business in Nigeria, contribute to the deepening of the Nigerian capital market and be a catalyst for capital formation within the Nigerian economy. With over a decade of operations, VFD Group has carved a niche for itself with over N50bn in equities invested in over 40 businesses without bias for sector or geography and we believe that our stake in the NGX will improve investor confidence in our country, drive capital appreciation and diversify our asset class he said.  Okpala in a statement during in an interview with the Nation reporter said that the group is currently building Africa’s first truly diverse business ecosystem  “Looking ahead, one of our key strategic plans is to be a global proprietary investment firm listed on one of the world’s leading exchanges, and we are already in the process of building this. We have designed a roadmap to take us there, with industry and cross boarder expansion plans staggered along the way, and I am positive that given our trajectory and the support of our stakeholders, we will achieve this,” Okpala said.  About Nonso Okpala: Nonso Okpala is the current Chairman and Group Managing Director of VFD Tech and VFD Group Plc. Previously served in Heirs Holdings as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and has extensive experience in the Nigerian financial services industry. Also worked for reputable firms such as KPMG, BGL, and United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA). Additionally, Mr. Okpala is an art enthusiast, which inspired him to found his start-up ARTSPLIT and was born on December 12, 1978 in Uga, Anambra State.  About VFD Group Plc: VFD Group founded in 2009 with business model allows it to operate in major sectors of the economy through its portfolio businesses, providing Financial Advisory, Asset Management, Real Estate, Technology, Debt and Private Funds Management Services, Hospitality, Insurance Brokerage, and Media, identifying solution-driven, consumer-centric businesses with growth and economic potential. It also goes a step further by providing investee companies with the required resources and guidance needed to maximize potential. The core business strategy is unlocking opportunities for value creation in the Nigerian and African informal sector while creating innovative and accessible products and solutions within the formal sector. Have vast portfolio, ranging from financial services to asset management, real estate, and Fintech, to mention a few, represents a uniquely diversified investment bouquet that helps manage risk, and allows to build an ecosystem with various complementary offerings. Through portfolio companies, company is building Africa’s first truly diverse business ecosystem and would love you to be part of this journey. 