WHO IS AFRAID OF GODWIN EMEFIELE?  The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele is focused on delivering the mandate of the Central Bank; he is rebuilding the economy of the country through import substitution policies and using agriculture to create a new rural middle class from ground up by a group of his friends under the aegis of FRIENDS OF GODWIN EMEFIELE  In the past few weeks, there have been media reports on the purported interest of the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, in the 2023 presidential race, leading to stampede by interested parties and vested interests who are resorting to all sorts of blackmail, sponsored articles and choreographed comments on social media targeted at tainting Godwin Emefiele’s image, impugning his character and legacy. According to the statement sent to The AmehNews and endorsed by friends of governor Godwin Emefiele saying Clearly, the negative attacks are being sponsored by those who see Emefiele as a major threat to their political ambition.  They said “Truth is Godwin Emefiele has not confirmed to anyone he is running for President even as he is constitutionally qualified to do so; he has been under pressure in the past few weeks as different groups have been putting up unsolicited campaign for his candidacy. Only yesterday, as the speculation became widespread, a group of his friends under the aegis of FRIENDS OF GODWIN EMEFIELE met with him to clarify his position.”  Here are seven points released by Emefiele’s friends:  Emefiele’s friends recall when he assumed the position of the CBN Governor in June 2014, the task before him was huge, the challenges seemingly insurmountable. Today despite huge headwinds he has calmed the waters and put Nigeria back on the path of growth, they added.  His friends also recall that shortly after assumed office, there was a sharp fall in crude oil prices from 2015, which led to significant revenue shortfalls in Nigeria where crude oil represents about 95 per cent of Nigeria’s export revenue. In comparison to the previous years before he became the CBN governor, the average price of crude oil from 2010 to 2014 was over $100/barrel and this fell to some $30 / barrel with high production costs of some $25/barrel.  According to them, this created major shock for the Nigerian economy, leading to a 13-month recession in 2016 but despite these challenges Emefiele’s monetary policies supported the Buhari administration and all 36 State governments, ensuring salaries were paid and much more was done, with much less, in infrastructure, steering Nigeria away from much worse outcomes while many oil producers like Kuwait, Russia, Angola and Brunei had longer lasting recessions between of 20 – 60 months.   Emefiele’s friends said Critics must also understand that the second recession the country entered into in 2020 was as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Then, the global economy (Nigeria inclusive) was plunged into recession because of the pandemic which was unprecedented. It led to declines in economic activities and lockdown across the world Countries like the USA had GBP falling in 2020 by MINUS 31% in Q2, UK by MINUS 19.4% in Q2, EU by MINUS 14.1% in Q2 and Nigeria, with deft response of the CBN had MINUS 6.1% in Q2, it was added.   Friends of Emefiele said as we all know the CBN supported fiscal authorities in the following areas: N100 billion health sector credit facility for operators in the sector. Today, Nigeria boasts of two world-class cancer centres in Lagos and medical tourism has reduced.   The statement further noted that despite all numerous challenges, the CBN under Emefiele has in the last seven years maintained a developmental- oriented approach in supporting the federal government to address challenges across various sectors of the economy and has initiated far-reaching reforms.   The group in the statement said “One issue the critics have continued to raise is the issue of the rice pyramid which was recently unveiled in Abuja. But these arm chair critics have failed to understand that through the Anchor Borrowers7 Programme (ABP), an initiative that was introduced by the Emefiele-led CBN, the lives of a lot of rural farmers have been transformed. The rice pyramid which had taken place previously in Minna, Kebbi, Gombe, Ekiti and Abuja, showed how Emefiele has used agriculture to support the federal governments wars on insecurity. The rice pyramids were built bag by bag in all the states the programme had been launched since December 2020, when it was first launched in Minna, Niger State. The programme held last month to unveil the world’s largest rice pyramid in Abuja was also an initiative of the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN).”   Emefiele’s friends cited that the ABP has been described as a major agricultural breakthrough and a source of pride to the country, as farmers, especially rice farmers, have continued to count gains under the scheme. According to them, the programme has increased banks7 finance to the agricultural sector and enhanced capacity utilisation of agricultural firms adding that from an average yield of 1.8 metric tonnes per hectare in the pre-ABP era, the initiative has increased the country’s average yield per hectare for rice paddy and maize to about five metric tonnes per hectare. In addition, there has been a significant reduction in the country’s rice import bill, from a monstrous $1.05 billion prior to November 2015, to the current figure of $18.50 million, annually.   The group further noted that the disruption caused by the COVID-19, which also contributed to the significant drop in the price of crude oil exposed the economy’s weak underbelly. In Nigeria, the Emefiele-led CBN acted swiftly, almost when the first case broke out in the country, by unveiling a raft of policy initiatives aimed at reducing the adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy. “Emefiele also spearheaded the creation of the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), an initiative that brought all the private sector business leaders under an umbrella in the fight against the spread of the pandemic. This was why in its latest Article IV Consultation released in February 2022, the International Monetary Fund praised Nigeria’s effort in fighting the spread of the virus.”   These friends pointed out that there are many other measures announced by the CBN Governor which will be detailed in due course like the support to Technology, Digital innovation, the Creative Industries and the 15 Trillion Infrastructure corporation recently launched.   Inclusion, they said apparently, those behind the sponsored negative reports are afraid of Emefiele’s towering personality and service to Nigeria. But these critics must understand that he cannot be stampeded any way. He is focused on delivering the mandate of the Central Bank; he is rebuilding the economy of the country through import substitution policies and using agriculture to create a new rural middle class from ground up.  Those who continue to criticise the rice pyramid are too ashamed of giving glory to whom it is due. Emefiele is focused on his unfinished job and should not be distracted, they said. 