L-R: The Commissioner For Insurance/CEO, National Insurance Commission  (NAICOM); Kano State SSG and Chairman of the Implementation Committee Alhaji Usman Alhaji and Alhaji  Sabiu Bello, Deputy Commissioner for Insurance,  Technical, during the training in Abuja, The Commissioner For Insurance (CFI), Mr Sunday Thomas said the speed at which the State Government has taken serious steps to implement this project has given us courage and confidence that insurance can indeed, thrive in Kano State in particular and, Nigeria in General. Thomas while address Committee Retreat on Implementation of Compulsory Insurances appreciated his Excellency the Executive Governor of Kano State Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for giving the support to the Commission and to the sector to boost insurance penetration in Kano state.  The Retreat For Members Of The Committee On Implementation Of Compulsory Insurances In Kano State Was Held At Rockview Hotel, Abuja From 9 – 11, February, 2022.  “I have been reliably informed that his Excellency has not only considered our request for office accommodations but directed an allocation of a comfortable office accommodation to the Commission.  According to Insurance Commissioner, the objective of this retreat is to equip members of the Committee with requisite information and knowledge to enable them maximise opportunities that will help grow and develop insurance culture amongst Kano State citizens, boost internally generated revenue for the state and, as well serve as a social protection mechanism that will assist both Government and citizens in the event of any disaster. READ ALSO THIS: Kano State Government to ensures effective implementation of insurance policies that facilitate our revenue generation drive- Ganduje “The Committee is already armed with a robust and strong terms of reference to work; and the calibre of personalities saddled with this responsibility by his Excellency is not giving any room for doubts. He added that, It gladdens my heart that membership of the Committee cuts across various sectors of the economy and business community in the State.  “We have put together various topics that will enable members of the Committee understand the nitty-gritty of the task before the it and how best to approach the assignment. The facilitators will take you through the carefully selected topics and I believe that at the end of the day, we will leave here better informed and prepared to carry out the assignment, he stressed.  Thomas pointed out that while not pre-emptying the presentations to follow, let me quickly mention the mandatory insurances that the Committee will be enforcing in the state, among others;  CFI further stated that the above compulsory classes of insurance, I believe should be adequately covered by the Committee. Beyond the compulsory classes of insurance, the Committee could also look at encouraging individuals and corporate entities within the state to embrace other non-mandatory insurances either through Takaful Insurance (otherwise known as Islamic Insurance) or Microinsurance which caters for the low-income earners who constitute larger percentage of the population and businesses. This will enable an all-inclusive approach to the drive for insurance uptake and will address most of the sentiments against insurance in our society.  “I want to assure the members of the Committee that the Commission is ready to provide all necessary support especially in the area of publicity, knowledge gap about insurance and expertise to assist you carry out your assignment successfully. I therefore will urge you to refer any matter you may require further guidance to the Commission. Suffice to say that the success of this project surely depends on the success of this Ccommittee.”  Insurance Commissioner noted that once Kano State gets this right, the story is going to be same with other states in the region. According to him, as one of the leading commercial nerve centres in the country with huge population and business potentials, the adoption and enforcement of these compulsory insurances will no doubt boost insurance premium income in the country, create thousands of employment opportunities in the state, improve standard of living of the people and increase the state’s internally generated revenue.  “As I mention in Kano during our workshop recently, working out a fashionable mechanism will ensure Kano State an enviable status of a role model to other states in the country in the area of insurance penetration.  He reiterates my earlier call on the Committee to consider and make recommendations to the state government on ways of including insurance cover to secure funds disbursed either to farmers or traders in its poverty alleviation programs. As we all know, it is only with insurance that the government can guarantee business sustainability and revolving of funds for the future, he noted.  Thomas commended His Excellency for this wonderful commitment and swift action to see that insurance takes its rightful place in Kano State. The entire cabinet have been so supportive and I must appreciate this hard work and resilience, he concluded. 