….Nigeria Lost over 2,038 People To Air Crash In 53 Years “The reality is that, though quite devastating when involved in an incident, Air transportation is still the safest and quickest mode of transportation, today by the Commissioner/CE of Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), Akin Olateru at the press briefing on the International Day for the Commemoration of Air Crash Victims and Their Families at Abuja, Nigeria”  The Accident Investigation Bureau of Nigeria (AIB-N) says in Nigeria, from the year 1969 to 2022 (53 years), a total of 2,038 people died in air crashes between 1969 and 2022. The Commissioner/CE of AIB-N, Akin Olateru, in his statement stated this at Abuja on Sunday that In Civil Aviation, Safety always comes first. Aviation safety is important because there are lives involved in every operation of an aircraft. A significant decrease in accident rates has been recorded through several activities including investigations and their safety recommendations, voluntary safety reporting, safety cultures, and Safety Management Systems (SMS).  In his word’s Poor safety management in aviation not only damages the aircraft involved, but can also cause the avoidable loss of human lives on-board the unfortunate aircraft and, sometimes, on ground.  “In Nigeria, from the year 1969 to 2022, a total of 2,038 (1996 on board passengers and 42 on ground) lives have been lost to air crashes. When an aircraft accident or serious incident occurs, it is always an unexpected and mostly fatal event that causes great distress and loss to the victims and their families.” Olateru who noted this at the press briefing in first of its kind in Nigeria on the International Day for the commemoration of the air crash victims and their families, further said though air transportation devastating, it is still the safest and quickest. Commissioner appreciates the Air Crash Victims’ Families’ Federation International (ACVFFI) for all that they do to ensure that issues concerning air crash accident and their victims are prioritized internationally and for working with the ICAO to ensure a day is set aside to remember those whom we have lost to air crashes. AIB-N boss said “poor safety management in aviation does not only damages the aircraft involved, but can also cause the avoidable loss of human lives on-board the unfortunate aircraft and, sometimes, on ground. “When an aircraft accident or serious incident occurs, it is always an unexpected and mostly fatal event that causes great distress and loss to the victims and their families. “The reality is that, though quite devastating when involved in an incident, air transportation is still the safest and quickest mode of transportation, today. “The economic benefits are apparent in various fields including business, tourism, medicine and even the military. Air travel contributes to sustainable development and has brought countries closer together, opening opportunities that were once limited to the imagination. He also said aviation provides the only rapid worldwide transportation network and is a major contributor to global economic prosperity which makes it an indispensable means of transport. “Aviation provides the perfect solution to connectivity issues between global markets. It is no wonder, therefore, that ICAO is committed to the creation and development of initiatives to ensure the growth and sustenance of this industry. “These also include initiatives to ensure that victim family assistance matters are adequately addressed.” On family assistance, he said in 1998, during the 32nd session of the assembly, ICAO considered and acknowledged the subject of aircraft accident victims and their families. According to him, the aim was to ensure that the mental, physical and spiritual well-being of victims involved in civil aviation accidents, and their families, are considered and accommodated by ICAO and its member states in accordance with ICAO’s policies and guidelines amongst others. He further explained that in 2001, ICAO issued the guidance on assistance to aircraft accident victims and their families. Subsequently, in 2013, the ICAO Policy on assistance to aircraft accident victims and their families was published and accompanied by a manual. He said, “in 1998, during the 32nd Session of the Assembly, ICAO considered and acknowledged the subject of aircraft accident victims and their families. “The aim was to ensure that the mental, physical and spiritual well-being of victims involved in civil aviation accidents, and their families, are considered and accommodated by ICAO and its member states in accordance with ICAO’s policies and guidelines. “Families of victims experience great anguish after an air crash, especially in the absence of effective information channels from the government, or the affected airline operator, to them. “In 2001, ICAO issued the Guidance on Assistance to Aircraft Accident Victims and their families. Subsequently, in 2013, the ICAO Policy on Assistance to Aircraft Accident Victims and their Families was published and accompanied by a manual. “Family assistance entails the provision of services and information that will address the concerns and needs of the aircraft accident victims and their families. “The ICAO policies and guidelines ensure that the needs of the victims and their families are addressed in a timely manner. Just as with any other emergency plan, it is essential to have a readiness plan to support the involved victims and their families. “Victims, survivors and their families should be treated with respect, dignity and empathy. “The Federal Government of Nigeria, through the Ministry of Aviation and the Bureau is following the international standards and procedures to ensure that everything is put in place to provide the requisite support for victims of air incidents and their families. “Under the 2013 National Civil Aviation Policy, the Bureau is charged with the responsibility of rendering Family Assistance to victims and their families at times of aircraft accidents.” Also, representing the families of air crash victims, Eric Briggs lauded the initiative by AIB-N for families and victims of air crashes saying that the families will be happy that the Federal Government and airline operators are concerned. He said before now, timeliness of crucial details for families is so unsettling but with the new initiatives, families can now get details and information of victims of air crashes. We at AIB-N, he said are determined to continue to extend the frontiers of safety in the aviation sector, as well as in the other forms of transportation. “We will achieve this by aligning ourselves with global best practice in the industry, and by employing the latest technology and the most qualified personnel, to thoroughly investigate past occurrences and make the appropriate recommendations to ensure that they never occur again. “We will ensure that we continue to review and improve our systems processes and procedures to reduce casualties associated with any transportation incidents and provide the information and other support systems necessary to fulfil our mandate.  