The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in Press briefing on Thursday following the Bankers’ Committee Meeting at Abuja, by the CBN governor Godwin Emefiele saying in order to give you updates on recent economic developments and to provide you with factual updates about the positive outcomes of the various intervention programs we introduced at the onset of COVID 19 and our new initiative in Nigeria’s Foreign Exchange Market.  The governor also said we have taken to ensure that we continue to strive to attain our mandates as set out in the CBN Act of 2007. In order to do so, let me first give you a brief background and context of our decisions.  Prior to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Nigerian economy was on a positive growth trajectory. We had witnessed 12 consecutive quarters of positive growth, along with significant foreign capital inflows due to improved fundamentals of the economy.  Unfortunately, the onset of the pandemic caused unprecedented social and economic consequences across the world. The rapid spread of COVID coupled with drastic measures taken by fiscal and monetary authorities to stabilize their respective economies has certainly changed the world as we know it.  In Nigeria, its impact was evident through several channels. First, the virus constituted a challenge to public health given its contagious nature, and measures had to be taken to contain the spread of the virus. These included social distancing and movement restrictions, while efforts were taken to build the capacity of our health care institutions to respond adequately to the virus. READ ALSO THIS: CBN Set to Holds a Biannual Non-Oil Export Summit first week of April 2022 On the economic front, we witnessed four (4) major discernible outcomes, namely: First, there was a sharp deceleration, and sometimes, complete stoppage, in global economic activities that significantly reduced the demand for, and price of crude oil, Nigeria’s main earner of US dollars. Indeed, prices fell by more than 70 percent, and as of 20 April 2020, the price of crude oil fell below zero dollar per barrel, as producers were forced to pay buyers for overwhelmed storage facilities.  Second, given that no one knew the depth or duration of the pandemic, many foreign investors withdrew massive amount of funds from Emerging Economies, and reinvested them into safe haven assets, such as US Treasuries and gold. The Institute of International Finance (IIF) estimated that investors withdrew over US$100 billion in emerging market portfolio equity and roughly US$20 billion in emerging market portfolio bonds in the wake of the pandemic and READ ALSO THIS: CBN Unveils ‘Race to US$200 billion in FX Repatriation Facility’ to boost non-oil exports over the next 3-5 years Thirdly, diaspora remittances fell significantly. This is understandable because to the extent that COVID-19 led to significant job losses in many advanced economies, diaspora remittances also suffered commensurate reductions in inflows into Nigeria. All these factors jointly explain the heightened pressures on the currencies of major emerging market countries, including Nigeria.  The final challenge we faced was major disruptions in global supply chains as countries sought to ensure that they had sufficient essential materials for their local market relative to their export market. Expectedly, these difficulties led to a contraction of the GDP and an uptick in inflation in 2020, with the inflation exacerbated by the increase in VAT rate, exchange rate adjustment and seasonal food supply shocks due to the onset of the farming season and other structural bottlenecks.  Faced with these challenges, the Central Bank of Nigeria had to contend with balancing the need to increase spending to support the economy, with additional measures to prevent an undue spike in inflation and heightened pressure on our exchange rate.  According to Emefiele, after careful analysis, we decided to support growth by taking unprecedented measures to prevent the economy from going into a tailspin. Our first objective was to restore stability to the economy by providing assistance to individual households, SMEs and businesses that had been severely affected by the pandemic, as well as by the lockdown measures, he added.  These are some of key measures CBN governor took include to restore stability to the economy: -A 1-year extension of the moratorium on principal repayments for CBN intervention facilities. -Reduction in the Monetary Policy Rate by 100 basis points from 12.5% to 11.5. -Reduction of the interest rate on CBN intervention loans from 9 to 5 percent. -Creation of NGN300 billion Targeted Credit Facility (TCF) for affected households and small and medium enterprises through the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank. -Creation of a NGN100 billion intervention fund in loans to pharmaceutical companies and healthcare practitioners intending to expand and strengthen the capacity of our healthcare institutions. -Creation of a research fund, which is designed   to support the development of vaccines in Nigeria. -A N1 trillion facility in loans to boost local manufacturing and production across critical sectors and – Introduction of policies and programmes to boost diaspora remittances.  Emefiele further disclosed that to date the CBN, working with our DMBs and participating financial institutions has granted over N3 trillion in intervention loans that have undoubtedly been one of the critical ingredients for our economic recovery and employment generation. Specifically, under the Anchor Borrowers Programme, we have disbursed N948 billion to 4,478,381 smallholder farmers who cultivated 5.2 million hectares of farmland across the country, thereby creating 12.5 million direct and indirect jobs, he added.  In his Words: Under our Targeted Credit Facility, which was meant to help households and businesses that suffered significant losses during the pandemic, we have disbursed N368.79 billion to 778,000 beneficiaries comprising 648,052 households, and about 130,000 SMEs. We have also disbursed N1.452 trillion to 337 Large real sector projects in agriculture, manufacturing, services, and mining under our Real Sector Support Facility. In healthcare, 122 major healthcare projects have been funded to the tune of N115.36 billion. These healthcare interventions went to 31 pharmaceutical and 91 hospital projects.  This intervention helped to support acquisition of 59 Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanners, 42 Computer Tomography (CT) scanners, and 4 Oncology screening machines.  “For the AGSMEIS programme, which caters for SMEs in the agribusiness space, a total of N134.63 billion has been released to 37,571 SME projects of which 67 percent were directly in agriculture-related projects, 22.5 percent were in services, while the balance were in fashion, IT, and related sub-sectors. Under the Nigeria Electricity Stabilization Facility, a total of N229 billion has been disbursed to 9 DisCos to help cover their financial obligations to upstream market participants. These interventions have helped to significantly improve liquidity in their ecosystem and increase electricity generation from 4,000 MW in 2020 to over 5,000 MW as of September 2021. The Bank has also released N47.83 billion to 10 DisCos under the National Mass Metering Programme for the procurement of 858,026 electricity meters. Because of these disbursements, the revenue collection for DisCos increased significantly to over N69 billion as of December 2021.  He stated that it is important that I went through these numbers painstakingly to show that the problems we face in this country do have solutions as long as we work objectively to understand them and dispassionately to solve them. It is obvious from the foregoing that the impact of these measures helped the country make the fastest recovery from recession ever recorded and changed the trajectory of inflation to an 8-month downward spiral, he noted. “These policies and measures also led to a significant improvement in diaspora inflow from an average of US$6 million per week in December 2020 to an average of over US$100 million per week by January 2022.” 