It seems the chicken are coming home to roast in the protracted Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) crises, as a Lagos Federal High Court today delivered a landmark judgement over the parading of ANLCA BOT Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) certificate which has been causing confusion and misleading the public. In a judgement paper obtained by our Correspondent, the Court ordered that , the acclaimed BOT Certificate being paraded by Alhaji Taiwo Mustapha and co should go through abitration with the association’ s constitution and the case was adjourned Sine die. According to the Court documents, with suit No: FHC/L/CS/599/2020 with Alhaji Taiwo Mustapha, Chief Dennis Okafor and Prince Taiye Oyeniyi as Plaintiff/ Respondents and Registered Trustees of ANLCA, Tony Nwabunike and Chief Henry Njoku as Defendants/ Applicants. And also Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) joined as Defendant/ Respondent. In their prayers, the plaintiffs ” upon the motion on notice dated 3rd of August 2020 and filled on the 7th day of August, 2020 coming up before this Honourable court and praying for the following reliefs:
1 An order of this Honourable court staying all further proceedings in this suit Sine die pending the activation and conclusion of arbitral proceedings by the parties herein.
2 And for such further or other orders as this Honourable court may deem fit to make in the circumstance(s) of the case. But the presiding Judge, Justice P. O. Lifu (JP) hereby ordered as follows:
1 That a stay of further proceeding in this suit is hereby ordered pending the activation and conclusion of arbitral proceedings by the parties in accordance with Article 26 of the parties ie 1st Defendant Constitution.
2 That this suit is hereby adjourned Sine die pending arbitration. Issued at Lagos , under the hand of the seal of this Honourable court this 1st day of Febuary 2022.”  What this means is that the court has ordered Mustapha and Co to go back to arbitration with their Association in accordance with the ANLCA’s Supreme Constitution regarding the authenticity and genuiness of the BOT registered CAC certificate which the trio has been parading as board members. The order by implications has also annulled the plaintiffs as members of ANLCA BOT members.     