Oando Plc (the “Company”) in a statement hereby notifies the shareholders and other stakeholders of the following changes on its Board of Directors through the Nigerian Exchange (The NGX) about resignation of Mr. Olufemi Adeyemo, Executive Director (ED) and the Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company resigns his appointment from the Company and Board with effect from February 18, 2022. Mr Adeyemo’s resignation which is coming when the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd announced the company’s participation in the importation of methanol blended fuel into the Nigerian market needed explanations . But usual, Oando management had denied participation in the importation of the off-spec petrol until the revelation, according to Reuter report. The Oando Company was one of the suppliers that imported the methanol blended petrol through four Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) cargoes under its Direct Sales Direct Purchase arrangement, according to NNPC statement.
The NNPC statement further disclosed that four companies that supplied the methanol blended petrol are: Oando through a vessel named MT Elka Apollon, MRS through a vessel named MT Bow Pioneer, Emadeb/Hyde/AY Maikifi/Brittania-U Consortium through vessel identified as MT Tom Hilde, and Duke Oil. The four cargoes were traced back to in late January that originated from Litasco’s terminal in Antwerp, Belgium. Litasco is the Swiss trading arm of Russia’s Lukoil. The statement further disclosed that Femi Adeyemo joined the Company in October 2005 as the Chief Financial Officer and was appointed as an Executive Director on the Board on July 30, 2009. According to the statement excerpted from the NGX site and endorsed by Ayotola Jagun, the Company Secretary and Alero Balogun, the Head, Corporate Communications of the company both The Wings Office Complex 17a Ozumba Mbadiwe Avenue Victoria Island, Lagos stated that with his extensive experience in strategic consulting and finance, Mr. Adeyemo played a major role in the growth and success of the Oando Group. He was pivotal in the execution of several notable accomplishments, including but not limited to; the 2014 landmark acquisition of ConocoPhillips Nigerian assets, the 2015 Rights Issue, and various restructuring programs within the Group. “The Board and Management of the Company commend Mr. Adeyemo for his valuable contributions and meritorious stewardship and thank him for his dedication and accomplishments over the last 16 (sixteen) years with the Company. Also, the Company disclosed the appointment of Mr. Adeola Ogunsemi as an Executive Director and the Group Chief Financial Officer effective February 18, 2022. According to the company, Mr. Adeola Ogunsemi has been the Chief Financial Officer of Oando’s upstream division, Oando Energy Resources, since January 01, 2012. Prior to that, he was the Financial Controller of Oando Exploration & Production Limited having joined the Oando Group on March 01, 2009. His experience spans over 25 years in Accounting and Finance, out of which more than 20 years has been spent in the Oil and Gas industry.  “He was with BP America for five years, rising to become Assistant Controller, and has extensive experience in fund raising, mergers, acquisitions and divestment, joint venture management, financial reporting, process improvement, and internal control evaluation and design, as well as financial management. The statement further said before joining BP America, he worked for Northern Illinois Gas in Chicago, USA, for four years, where he rose to become the Head of Disbursement. He also worked for the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce and Midas International in Illinois, USA in accounting and treasury roles. He obtained a Master of Business Administration (MBA) in Finance and Strategic Management from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business in 2003 and a Bachelor of Science in Accounting and Finance from DePaul University in Chicago in 2000. He is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Nigeria.