Nestle launched the new NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1, a new addition to the coffee 3in1 segment. NESCAFE Malty Pack: Pack shot of the new product. NESCAFE Malty Launch 1: (L-R) Category Manager Coffee, Gbenga Alabi; Managing Director, Wassim Elhusseini and Commercial Manager, Khaled Ramadan (all of Nestlé Nigeria PLC) at the launch of the new NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1 in Lagos recently. NESCAFE Malty Launch 2: Managing Director of Nestlé Nigeria PLC, Wassim Elhusseini, speaking at the launch of the new NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1 in Lagos recently Nestlé Nigeria has introduced NESCAFÉ MALTY, a new blend of coffee and malt
in the NESCAFÉ 3in1coffee options which deliver a rich, bold and enjoyable taste
to satisfy consumer preferences. At the launch of the new NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1 in Lagos, the Managing Director
and CEO of Nestlé Nigeria PLC, Mr. Wassim Elhusseini said, “At Nestlé, we are
focused on unlocking the power of food to enhance quality of life for everyone
today and for generations to come. We therefore continuously provide distinctive
food innovations fueled by creative exploration and consumer insights. It is
based on this insight that NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1 was developed with the Nigerian
consumer in mind, bringing together the goodness of malt with the rich flavour
of Nescafé that we enjoy at an affordable price.” Also speaking at the launch, the Category Manager for NESCAFÉ in Nigeria, Mr.
Gbenga Alabi said, “NESCAFÉ is proud to launch this new 3in1 with malt. This
innovation is a result of years of dedicated research to find the perfect blend of
coffee, creamer, sugar and malt, that constitutes a rich cup of coffee. Each 25g
serving of the new NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1 is formulated to provide the thrill to “Start Strong, Finish Strong”. It offers a great tasting stimulation that sets you up
for the day, when you need to start with the best version of yourself.” With this new addition, the Nestlé Nigeria NESCAFÉ range now includes three
variants: the NESCAFÉ Classic, NESCAFÉ Original 3in1 and the new NESCAFÉMalty 3in1.  NESCAFÉ is a flagship brand of the largest food and beverage company in the
world – Nestlé. The beverage was invented by Nestlé in the 1930s to deliver rich, bold flavor in an instant. The innovation also helped farmers reduce labour and
post-harvest crop waste, which was a huge agricultural challenge at the time. Helping farmers is something that Nestlé is still passionate about today, across
the globe. Billions of coffee cups are consumed daily because it contains beneficial nutrients, including riboflavin (vitamin B-2), niacin (vitamin B-3), magnesium, potassium, and various phenolic compounds, orantioxidants 