The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) and other government agencies under the Ministry of Transportation in collaboration with truck owners and haulage operators have agreed to address the challenges faced with the Electronic Call Up system and other port operations.  This is even as they agreed to eradicate non-state actors and other extortionists from the port corridors. Speaking at a stakeholders’ engagement meeting with the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA), Lagos State Task Force Team, and the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA) at the NSC Headquarters in Lagos on Thursday, the Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Shippers Council; Mr Emmanuel Jime who was represented by Director Consumer Affairs, Chief Cajetan Agu, noted that the presence of some overzealous personnel of the security agencies and non-state actors such as touts and area boys are the major cause of the challenges faced on the port access road by truckers and other road users. As regards Eto, he said its purpose was to remove human interface and thereby fight extortion, adding that the agencies involved would sit down and discuss ways to address the issue. He urged truckers to note that the call-up should be on need basis by terminals, “stay in approved parks until called, shun giving bribes, always call the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority when trucks break down.” Jime stressed that enforcement teams should be moving around to have an experience of what the truckers are complaining about and to ensure sanity on the port corridor Agu decried the multiple checkpoints created by security agencies and called for their reduction while charging truckers to always comport themselves within the confines of the law and be in synergy with the E-Call up system. “We can all see that there are some improvements in the traffic situation in the port environment compared to the previous years. I encourage truck drivers, owners and stakeholders to be patient with the Eto system and synergize and let see how we can work it out successfully. We have heard complaints that there are about 18 checkpoints between Mile 2 and Tin-Can alone, where some security agencies connive with some non-state actors to harass and extort truck drivers. We call for the reduction of these checkpoints and ensure all non-state actors are eradicated to reduce the level of extortion at the port corridors”, he said. Speaking earlier, the National Secretary and Board of Trustees member of the Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations (COMTUA), Mr. Godwin Ikeji , who represented the president, Mr Adeyinka Aroyewun, noted that the managers of the Electronic Call Up system have refused to address the pertinent issues of extortion brought to their notice. He also decried the inconsistent policies, lack of synergy, and multiple checkpoints on the port access roads. “The extortions we face every day on our roads are worrisome and the Electronic Call Up is not helping matters, but propounding it. We pay as high as N31,000 on the Eto platform and have constantly been extorted by state and non-state actors. All we are asking for is an even playground for all”, he pleaded. Also speaking, the National Organizing Secretary, COMTUA, Mr. Dike Ekene Collins lamented alleged highhandedness and extortion from Lagos State Task Force Team on Truck drivers. He noted that their trucks are illegally impounded and labeled abandoned when there is a little fault or breakdown on the road in order to extort their drivers. “Sometimes, when the driver alights from his truck to check a fault on his truck, the LASTMA officials will pounce on the truck and start driving it to their office. When you negotiate with them, they illegally label the truck as an abandoned vehicle and even charge you for towing a truck that was driven to their office”, he stated. On his part, the Port Manager of the Tin Can Island Port; Mr. Jubril Buba who was represented by the Principal Manager, Mr. Emmanuel Anda noted that some of the challenges faced by the Electronic Call Up system are caused by issues of network connectivity. He assured that plans are being made to improve the facility for the benefit of all port users. Buba however urged Truck drivers to have a unity of purpose in their activities, use the approved Truck parks and Pre-gate in order to strengthen the Electronic Call up system and port operations in general. “Everyone is trying to cheat the process. The eradication of extortion and all these illegalities is work-in-progress that it’s going to take a lot of time, but we call on the truck drivers to embrace the unity of purpose and ensure they all come out from the approved parks and pre-gate” he noted. A representative and Assistant Director of the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, Engr. Olayinka Olawole said truck drivers should always inform LASTMA officials of any breakdown of their trucks and ensure all monies are directly paid to the government by demanding tickets. He stressed that truckers have the right to report cases of extortion with evidence to the ministry. Olawole charged truckers to ensure that their trucks are road-worthy to avoid breakdowns on the roads. He also enjoined all stakeholders to collaborate and ensure they do the right thing. “Always ensure you pay directly to the government and demand for tickets. You have the right to complain at the Ministry showing evidence of towing and extortion. Also, avoid physical assault on any official. Most of the trucks brought into Lagos are not road-worthy and the Government has started enforcing this policy on all vehicles. The government will not condone any act of indiscipline from any business owner.” Olawole warned.