 The Managing Director (MD/CEO), African Alliance Insurance, Mrs. Joyce Ojemudia in her Speech Delivered at the Members’ Evening of the NCRIB Lagos on  Tuesday February 22, 2022 saying African Alliance Insurance gospel of resilience, strength and perseverance. According to her Despite the global economic uncertainties, the foremost life insurance company has served so many, across generations, having being in the business of insurance for 62 years, we believe it is our duty to intimate our critical stakeholders, the body of brokers, of our strides thus far as well as our plans to be the most agreeable business partner for all of you. She noted that we have made Progress, there is no better word to define the massive changes, and growth experienced in our business in the past 1 Year+ of my resumption as the MD/ CEO of our great organization. Indeed the grace of God has been sufficient, even amiss the pandemic, we have moved upward and forward. In the next few minutes,Ojemudia, said I will be taking us through the progress we have made thus far, as it relates to our mutual interests. In her words, It is paramount to every insurer to pay claims as this is fundamental to our existence as a business adding that this principle is taken as a responsibility in our company and has inspired us to continually pay claims promptly which is demonstrated in the billions we have paid in claims year in year out. “In 2021 business year, we paid claims exceeding N7.59bn to our customers, a substantial bulk of which were for annuity claims and the Group Life. This shows an increase of over N590m in claims payment in the prior year. As earlier stated, this is a clear confirmation of our unchanging commitment to paying genuine claims.
For proper representation, I will begin to highlight the breakdown of the figures of claims by product line paid for 2021 business year;” Ojemudia profile Claims as at January to December 2021 as follows:
INDIVIDUAL 1,234,586,643.21
GROUP 1,356,946,902.47
TAKAFUL 626,484,201.07
ESUSU 25,178,089.57
ANNUITY 4,348,670,916.82
TOTAL 7,591,866,753.14 However, she further disclosed that, in January 2022 alone, we have paid a total of N723.96m in claims. Group Life stood at N81.89m, Individual Life anchored on N137.96m,  leaving Takaful N128m and Esusu N7.3m respectfully.
Annuity N368.78m She further stated that Our claims efforts have been helped by strong reinsurance treaties with top reinsurers as our partners. From left: Deputy President, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers, Tunde Ogungbade, President, Rotimi Edu and Managing Director, African Alliance Insurance, Mrs. Joyce Ojemudia at the event.
On recapitalisation Plans, Ojemudia revealed that the company injected about N14.4B through assets conversion as at December 2020, this has indeed improved our shareholders fund considerably and increased our asset base. Furthermore, managing director stated that the company will be increasing its capital base through right issues targeted at significant shareholders in addition to getting new investors to buy into the company. Business combination which is our last resort in the event that the above plans are not adequate, she said. The key Market Expansion strategic goal in 2021 was to grow our premium income via deliberate market expansion into untapped regions with good prospects for life insurance. To that effect, we have launched the retail marketing expansion strategy which led to the opening of offices in Abeokuta and Akure, she said. While, in 2022, we are moving northwards as we look to reestablish presence in Ilorin and Jos as well as other prospective locations she disclosed. “In 2021 in a quest for customer satisfaction, we revamped our Esusu plus in response to our customers’ yearnings to have both a year-long plan as well as a two-year option. We also launched our innovative Term Assurance plan in the market, a product that has excited the market with its short-term focus and value addition. In 2022, we look forward to actively engage in customer surveys to further develop our products and increase customer satisfaction. From left: Deputy President, Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers, Tunde Ogungbade, President, Rotimi Edu and Managing Director, African Alliance Insurance, Mrs. Joyce Ojemudia at the event. “Our self-service policy platform specifically for brokers as it concerns our Term Assurance product is up and running. We have also commissioned the design of a new core business application which comes with a wealth of benefits. “We will be able to speed up our efficiency and effectiveness in terms of service delivery to you our dear partners;
• It will enhance collaboration with our stakeholders.
• It will significantly aid our digital footprints and support various remote policy buying capabilities. She disclosed that We are also working on having a claims portal where all claims can be lodged from the comfort of your homes and treated in a timely manner. In the previous year, your support and trust in us contributed immensely to what we have built and the capacity on which we stand today, she concluded.