……Proposes 114% Dividend Growth as Operating PBT Rises 53% Leading Investment bank and foremost Pan-African financial services group, United Capital Plc, (NGX: UCAP, Bloomberg: UCAP:NL, Financial Times: UCAP: LAG) announced its Audited Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2021. Gross Earnings was up 40% year-on-year to N18.07 billion, operating PBT grew 53% year-on-year to N12.12 billion. Total assets grew 104% year-on-year to N453.60 billion while Shareholders’ Funds rose 25% year-on-year to N30.55 billion from N24.43 billion. The company has proposed 114% increase in dividend to N1.50 for every 50 kobo ordinary share. Speaking on the audited financial results, Chairman of the board, Professor Chika Mordi, stated: “We are proposing N1.50 dividend for every 50 kobo ordinary share, up 114% over 70 kobo dividend paid last year. This affirms our commitment to wealth creation for our shareholders”.  Commenting on the Group’s performance, the Group Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Peter Ashade, had this to say: “Our strong performance was driven by exponential growth in business activities across all the market segments that we serve as we successfully navigated a volatile operating environment to create best-in-class solutions for our clients. United Capital is on a progressive path as witnessed in our strong earnings growth, and superior value delivery to shareholders over the years, amongst other metrics that are reflective of high performing organizations. All stakeholders can be assured of our commitment to sustain our organizational growth trajectory well into the foreseeable future as we navigate the tough operating terrain. We will continue to pursue developmental activities and actively engage regulatory authorities, investors, and relevant stakeholder groups towards deepening the capital market, strengthening the broader financial system, and driving financial inclusion as a means of accelerating the economic development of our dear country and empowering its citizens. United Capital Plc remains a leader in the financial and investment services space, with a mission to provide bespoke and innovative value-added services to its clients. The group aims to transform the African continent by providing innovative and creative investment banking solutions to governments, companies, and individuals. The group is listed on the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) and is at the forefront of becoming the financial and investment role model across Africa by leveraging on innovation, technology, and specialist skills to exceed client expectations, while creating more value for all stakeholders.