Over 3,000 manufacturers group under the aegis of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), the leading Business Membership Organization in West Africa and the African Continent pointed out that the current increase in prices of crude oil and other refined petroleum products such diesel is one of such disruptions occasioned by external shocks that confirms the interwovenness of economies in the world.  According to the statement sent to The Ameh News and endorsed by Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of MAN says No doubt, the recent short supply and over 200% increase in the price of AGO are part of the backlashes from the ongoing invasion of Ukraine by Russia. http://www.manufacturersassociation.org The MAN DG reiterated that the Association is the voice of manufacturers in Nigeria represents the interests of over 3,000 manufacturers (small; medium; large and multinational industries) spread across 10 sectors, 76 sub-sectors and 16 industrial zones and currently leading the Federation of West African Manufacturers Association and Pan African Manufacturers Association. Manufacturers are heavy users of electricity in Nigeria and this naturally necessitates our keen interest in all electricity and alternative energy supply related discourse and development.  “The manufacturing sector in Nigeria employs over 5 million workers, directly and indirectly with 8.46% contribution to Gross Domestic Product. The sector also dominates export trade in the West African region, generate foreign exchange, contributes substantially to revenue of Government and human capital development in Nigeria. It is therefore imperative that manufacturing be given priority attention and safe guarded against steep deadline. This should be backed with comprehensive and integrated support system during times of crisis. Its performance should be enhanced through a pro-manufacturing policy that will encourage scale and lower unit cost of production, he added.  Ajayi-Kadir said the recent increase in the price of automotive gas oil (AGO) is a great concerned about the implications of the over 200% increase in the price of AGO on the Nigerian economy and the manufacturing sector http://www.amehnews.com Over the years, he said the manufacturing sector has been battered by numerous familiar challenges that have plummeted the number of industries in Nigeria and converted industrial hubs in many parts of the country to warehouses of imported goods and event centres. He lists the challenges confronting the sector as follows: high operating cost environment occasioned largely by inadequate electricity supply and the high cost of alternative sources, excessive regulation and taxation, and inadequate supply of foreign exchange for importation of raw materials, spare parts and machinery that are locally available. All these have culminated into the lacklustre performance of the sector, he stressed.