The Kaduna State Government on Thursday ordered the immediate closure of Ffad Goshen Academy, Gumei along Zonkwa Road, Kachia in Kachia Local Government Area of the state following an alleged defilement of a four-year-old deaf and dumb girl by an unknown person. The girl was said to have been allegedly violated within the school premises and the proprietress, Mrs Rebecca Barde, wanted a cover-up because she works with the government house and is “very powerful” according to the girl’s father, Mr. Tyinmvak Musa. The prime suspect of the heinous act was said to be the school driver who is currently in police custody. Meanwhile, the State Commissioner for Human Services and Social Development, Hafsat Baba, said, “We saw that she was truly severely damaged. We have gone to the hospital and she will undergo corrective surgery “The government of Kaduna State will take responsibility for the surgery because she is our girl. The school has been closed down because it is still under investigation. That school will remain closed until all investigations are concluded and until we get clearance from the court because that girl deserves justice and that is what we are going to do.” The victim’s father, Musa while narrating his ordeal, said, “My daughter was eager to learn how to write, that was why we enrolled her in school. “On Friday, June 10, I personally put her in the school bus with about three other children in the vehicle around 6.30 am that fateful day. When we did not see her around that 12pm, her mother was disturbed. However, around 2pm, the school bus returned and parked in front of our shop. “When I saw the girl, I knew all was not well with her. When I carried her from the mother, she was touching her lower abdomen and buttocks, demonstrating how she was slapped and penetrated by someone.” Also speaking,  a Kaduna-based lawyer and right activists, Bukola Ajao, said while taking briefs from the physically challenged girl, “she described how someone slapped her and used hand to cover her mouth and had sexual intercourse with her.” “We met a Deputy Commissioner of Police who referred us back to the Gender Unit. The matter has been referred to the Legal Department. The only suspect we have in the police is the school driver,” she said.