BUA Cement: King in the North West The management of BUA Cement Company has notified the Nigerian Exchange (The NGX) that it had begun discussions with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), serving as lead arranger, to obtain a syndicated loan for further expansion of BUA Cement’s integrated cement plant in Kalambaina, Sokoto State. According to report, the plan is to increase its capacity from 5.0mmt to 8.0mmt to bring the company’s total capacity to 17.0mmt by 2024. The Ameh News (TAN) recalled that following its acquisition of Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN), Kalambaina and Obu Cement in 2009 and their eventual consolidation in 2020. The BUA management has on the drive seek to obtain synergies from anywhere possible to increased capacity to service new and existing markets, operational efficiency and economies of scale.  Adebayo Adebanjo, The Head, Analyst at Coronation Research noted that as the second-largest cement manufacturer in Nigeria, BUA Cement has recorded consistent double-digit revenue growth (CAGR: 29.3%), which translates into EPS CAGR of 12.07% between 2018 and 2021. He added that this performance was supported by increased private sector demand for housing and commercial construction, increased output, and significantly increased cement prices. While our (Analysts) view is that opportunities abound for volume and price growth in the forecast years, 2022F onwards, we believe BUA Cement’s valuation is rich compared to its emerging market peers. Consequently, we recommend BUA Cement (BUACEMENT) as a SELL with a Target
Price (TP) of N44.60.
w Aggressive capacity rollout to capture demand opportunities.  As a research and analyst, Adebanjo said BUA Cement has embarked on an aggressive capacity rollout growing from 5.0 million metric tonnes (mmt) in 2018 to 11.0mmt as of January 2022, with an additional 6.0mmt across its Kalambaina plant in Sokoto state and Obu plant in Edo State. Management has also highlighted steps to add an additional 8.0mmt in a memo discussing its capital-raising strategy with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), he stressed.  “This is intended to increase economies of scale and lower downtime; these developments are likely to be positive for cash costs per ton and margin performance. As a result, he said, our revenue growth forecast for FY22-27F is set at a CAGR of 18.0% in nominal terms. In addition, we forecast EBITDA to grow by a CAGR of 18.8% over the forecast period from FY 2022F to FY 2027F, translating into an EPS CAGR of 17.6%, he added.  Adebanjo disclosed that we expect the growth to be driven primarily by steady growth in both output and prices, and expansion of the company’s operating margin, while at the same time allowing finance costs on completed projects to rise as these were earlier capitalised. “Low consumption per capita, rising prices to support growth. We continue to see potential growth opportunities in the domestic cement market, of which BUA Cement is the second largest producer in Nigeria. Nigerian infrastructure growth and cement consumption per capita are among the lowest globally, considering its population, demographics, and urbanisation rate. Coupled with the rising retail price of cement, management highlights that excess production could be exported, taking advantage of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). Such an outcome could present an upside risk to our volume and revenue growth expectations. Valuation and Rating.  He reiterated that we initiate coverage with a Target Price (TP) of N44.60/s, implying a potential downside of 35.6% from the current price, and a SELL rating. According to our estimates, he said BUA Cement is trading on a 2022E P/E of 23.2x and EV/EBITDA multiple of 17.9x, which are significant premiums to its emerging market peer multiples of 14.1x and 7.2x. In our view, the current rich valuation is likely a result of investors over-estimating the future speed of the company’s capacity expansion, volume sales growth and the operational efficiency of new plants. Another factor, in our view, is the stock’s low free float (1.79% of shares outstanding or N43.60bn), with Market cap of N2,347bn or US$5,515m and its consequent low liquidity. Revenues
Capacity rollout: Playing catch-up Adebanjo further disclosed that as part of its mission to increase supply to address unabating demand for cement in Nigeria, BUA Cement has been playing catch-up to win market share from market leader Dangote Cement. From 2018 to 2022, its installed capacity increased from 5 million metric tonnes (mmt) to 11mmt, a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 21.8%. However, this strategy will only succeed if newly commissioned plants are put into service, which in turn depends on rising cement demand and strong operating margins. To begin with, sales need to rise with capacity.  In January 2022, the company commissioned the 3.0 million metric tonnes (mmt) Kalambaina Line 4 plant in Sokoto State. Increasing capacity appears to be a tried and tested business model for the industry in Nigeria. Despite the negative effects of the land border closure (between Nigeria and its immediate neighbours) in August of 2019, the commitment to focus output in Nigeria has paid off, as seen in the volume sales CAGR of 22.6% over the past four years. Sales volumes rose from 2.94mmt in 2018 to 5.42mmt in 2021. This compares favourably with the development of the Nigerian economy overall, as the GDP growth rate averaged 1.42% over the same period, or a CAGR of 1.22%. In a memo released on 25 July, the company notified the NGX Exchange that it had begun discussions with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), serving as lead arranger, to obtain a syndicated loan for further expansion of BUA Cement’s integrated cement plant in Kalambaina, Sokoto State. The plan is to increase its capacity from 5.0mmt to 8.0mmt to bring the company’s total capacity to 17.0mmt by 2024F. installed capacity, mmt Sales volume, mmt  Capacity utilisation
BUA Cement has demonstrated an ability to sweat its assets even as it added new capacity in 2019, maintaining utilisation at over 55%. Between 2018 and 2021, the company gained 8.9 percentage points in capacity utilisation, from 58.8% to 67.8%%. Capacity utilization fell by 2.5 percentage points between 2018 and 2019 due to the addition of the 3mmt Obu plant Line 2 in Edo State, but in absolute terms resulted in a 53% increase in volume output. Chart 2: Capacity Utilisation Chart 3: Capex-to-Sales Reflecting the capacity expansion policy is the company’s very high capex-to-sales ratio which has been consistently above 20%. We expect it to remain at this level for the first part of our forecast period before tapering after 2024F. Benefits of a high price environment
As we have seen, BUA Cement’s volume sales have trended about the GDP growth rate, suggesting that demand is generally strong and that the entire cement sub-sector (classified by the National Bureau of Statistics as part of manufacturing) is outperforming the economy. The cement sub-sector grew at a CAGR of 4.53% in inflation-adjusted terms between 2018 and 2021. As a price taker in an oligopolistic industry, the company has been able to implement price increases over the period to maximise revenue, with its unit price rising by a CAGR of 5.4% in nominal terms between 2018 and 2021. While inflation averaged 13.86% year-on-year over the period, the company could not match this with price increases, as was the case with the price-setter in the Nigerian market, Dangote Cement, which only managed to put through prices increases close to the rate of
inflation in 2021.  Revenue Growth
Having recorded 51.7% revenue growth year-on-year between H1 2021 and H1 2022, our view is that the combination of growing demand for cement, aggressive capacity expansion, and price increases broadly in line with inflation are set to be the primary drivers of BUA Cement’s revenue growth. The revenue CAGR between 2018 and 2021 was 29.3%, well above the level of inflation and is expected to rise going into the forecast years. The company has also made a case for capacity expansion to increase export volumes, given the full implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA)