“The manufacturing sector has been battered by numerous familiar challenges that have plummeted the number of industries in Nigeria and converted industrial hubs in many parts of the country to warehouses of imported goods and event centres by Segun Ajayi-Kadir, MAN DG”  The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) is the voice of manufacturers in Nigeria, also the leading Business Membership Organization in West Africa and the African Continent. The Association which comprising over 3,000 manufacturers (small; medium; large and multinational industries) spread across 10 sectors, 76 sub-sectors and 16 industrial zones and currently leading the Federation of West African Manufacturers Association and Pan African Manufacturers Association. According to the statement sent to The Ameh News (TAN) and endorsed by Segun Ajayi-Kadir, the Director General (DG) of the Association noted that the manufacturers are heavy users of electricity in Nigeria and this naturally necessitates our keen interest in all electricity and alternative energy supply related discourse and development. MAN DG further pointed out that the manufacturing sector in Nigeria employs over 5 million workers, directly and indirectly with 8.46% contribution to Gross Domestic Product adding that the sector also dominates export trade in the West African region, generate foreign exchange, contributes substantially to revenue of Government and human capital development in Nigeria.  “It is therefore imperative that manufacturing be given priority attention and safe guarded against steep deadline.  He stated that this should be backed with comprehensive and integrated support system during times of crisis adding that its performance should be enhanced through a pro-manufacturing policy that will encourage scale and lower unit cost of production.  “Over the years, the manufacturing sector has been battered by numerous familiar challenges that have plummeted the number of industries in Nigeria and converted industrial hubs in many parts of the country to warehouses of imported goods and event centres. He pointed out that the top on the list of challenges confronting the sector is high operating cost environment occasioned largely by inadequate electricity supply and the high cost of alternative sources, excessive regulation and taxation, and inadequate supply of foreign exchange for importation of raw materials, spare parts and machinery that are locally available. All these have culminated into the lacklustre performance of the sector, he stressed.  Nevertheless, Association said in light of the gravity of the precarious situation that we have found ourselves as a nation and the looming dangers ahead, the expectations of manufacturers in Nigeria are as follows: that Government should  Ajayi-Kadir reiterated that the manufacturing sector in Nigeria employs over 5 million workers, directly and indirectly with 8.46% contribution to Gross Domestic Product. He disclosed that the sector also dominates export trade in the West African region, generate foreign exchange, contributes substantially to revenue of Government and human capital development in Nigeria.  “Global events have shown that the world is like a village. The emergence of a challenge in one country can become a major constraint with spiral effects for the world. Often times when disruption occurs in any part of the global economy, only countries with functional institutions and strong internal economic mechanisms will be able to respond appropriately to such external shocks. “The current increase in prices of crude oil and other refined petroleum products such diesel is one of such disruptions occasioned by external shocks that confirms the interwovenness of economies in the world. No doubt, the recent short supply and over 200% increase in the price of AGO are part of the backlashes from the ongoing invasion of Ukraine by Russia. This resulted in numerous economic sanctions on Russia by the US and EU, which propped up the price of crude oil to $120 per barrel (now moderated to about $100) as Russia oil export is isolated. 