It is enjoyment galore and be celebrations this week as yo gour favorite and number 1 pizza brand in Nigeria, Domino’s pizza rewards her customers with a mega week sale of BUY ONE GET FREE ONLINE PROMO on Medium Pizzas! So, celebrate every moment with family and friends this week with fresh and hot pizzas from Domino’s and get it delivered to you in 20 minutes guaranteed or you get a free pizza voucher http://www.son.gov..ng According to Eat n Go marketing director, Ilyas Kazeem, “This July is an all-around celebration and fun with friends and family, because making friends and keeping friendships is deep in the heart of Domino’s Pizza, that’s why we put in all the love and bond in every tasty box of pizza to give you and your friends a whirlwind of unforgettable indulgent experience in every bite of Domino’s Pizza. So, celebrate this friendship season, express your love, and strengthen the bond with a slice of your favorite pizza with a buddy anywhere, any day or anytime.” “Remember , if its tasty, freshy baked, cheesy, hot and pocket friendly, it’s the Domino’s way! Especially with a BUY ONE GET FREE ONLINE PROMO from Wednesday 13th to Friday 15th July! This BUY ONE GET ONE FREE promo will bring a lot of fun and wonderful lasting memories so do not play with the thought of missing out on this delightful experience.  “Order on the website, https://www.dominos.ng/, and relish the Domino’s Pizza experience when you Buy One and Get One FREE ONLINE. That is the Domino’s Pizza way right there. Plus, we promise you 20 minutes delivery guarantee or we give you a free pizza voucher!!” Ilyas explained. “Let’s pally up and make unforgettable experiences with friends and loved ones together with Domino’s Pizza by your side delivering every step of the way, in 20mins delivery guaranteed! To enjoy our delicious mouth-watering pizzas and much more, walk into any Domino’s store or hop on the website https://www.dominos.ng/ and pally up with the goodness of Domino’s Pizza this July.” He added To stay aware of all our deals and offerings, check out our social media platforms on Facebook: www.facebook/dominospizzanigeria Twitter: www.twitter/dominosng and Instagram: @dominosng
Let’s pally up and celebrate!” He said.