 L-R: Group photograph of the Management of Nigerian Shippers’ Council and Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, Mr. Celestine Akujobi, Deputy Director Stakeholder Services, Division,  Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Rt. Hon. Emmanuel Jime, Executive Secretary/CEO,  Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, President-General, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, Ms. Ifeoma Ezedinma, Director Regulatory Services, Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Mr. Mutiu Ojetunde, Assistant Director Complaints Unit, Nigerian Shippers’ Council, and Comrade Felix Akingboye, Secretary-General of MWUN, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria The Management of Nigerian Shippers’ Council NSC, Led by Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer Hon. Emmanuel Jime, paid an advocacy visit to the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, MWUN at the Union’s headquarters in Ajegunle, today. In a statement sent to The Ameh News (TAN) and endorsed by Rakiya Dhikru-Yagboyaju, the Head, Public Relations of the Council saying Com. Adewale Adeyanju, President General, (MWUN) welcomed the management of NSC, commending Shippers’ Council for its various efforts in the maritime industry.  In the course of the discussions, She said the issue of the ongoing shutdown of AP Moller Terminal in Apapa came up. Comrade Adeyanju expressed disappointment in the attitude of APM Terminal management specifically the “Hire & Fire” system. Dhikru-Yagboyaju quoted Adewaleto have complained about the poor retirement package APMT gives its employees. Also speaking at the meeting was District chairman, APMT, Com. Tunde Balogun who spoke about APM Terminal’s employment of foreign workers instead of Nigerians, demotion of staff in order to accommodate expatriates in higher positions of the organization and the employment of inexperienced workers to high positions in the organization. He also bemoaned the discriminatory payment structure of the organization.  ES/CEO, NSC pledged to engage the management of APMT with a view to resolving the issues. He also pleaded with the President General of the MWUN for some more time in order to achieve these. This was followed by a response from the President General who said that the Union would look into the request. He described Hon. Jime as an ambassador of peace.  