 By Ijendu Iheaka  From Left:  Chief Godswill Nwanorue, Abia Transport Commissioner, Chief John Udeagbala, NACCIMA National President, Chief Ogochukwu Mgbii, Director, RightChoice Group and Catholic Bishop of Aba, Bishop Augustine Echema at the opening of the RightChoice Electronics Plaza in Aba, Abia State on Friday, July 8, 2022 .Chieff John Udeagbala, National President,  Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) says that endemic insecurity and poor infrastructure were worsening Nigeria’s business environment.  Udeagbala disclosed this at the opening of RightChoice Electronics, a World-Class Electronics Showroom on Azikiwe Street, in Aba, Abia on Friday.  The NACCIMA President thanked the MD of RightChoice Electronics for his resilience that birthed the showroom even in worsening business environment in Nigeria.  “The business environment has not been too good because of the obvious reasons of insecurity which has become endemic and the poor infrastructure.  “Talk about commuting, businesses cannot deliver products and goods and so we are still suffering from this poor infrastructure and that is what is worsening Nigeria’s business environment.  “We have been talking about what can be done to improve things.  “You could see now that the government has no money. If you look at the budget and capital expenditure, government is barely having money to pay.  “The execution of capital expenditure is very bad because of fuel subsidy payment. http://www.NACCIMA.com “So if we must get to the root of this problem rather than scratching from the top, it is either we fix our refineries or we will continue these stories”, he said.  Udeagbala said that NACCIMA is still supporting the removal of fuel subsidy because it is riddled with corruption and the right people are not benefitting from it.  The Catholic Bishop of Aba Diocese, Abia, Bishop Augustine Echema who blessed the showroom urged youths to be responsible at workplaces and businesses to grow such establishments and create more jobs for others.  He warned them against destroying the endeavours of one’s employers and relatives because of greedy and jealousy adding that such actions reduce employment opportunities and also draw God’s anger.  He said that any child who bites the hand that feeds him will not eat from such hand again.  The Bishop urged youths to desist from obtaining by tricks, robbery,  kidnapping and destruction of businesses and workplaces under their watch but to be productive stressing that God blesses genuine efforts.  He prayed God to bless RightChoice Electronics, to ensure that Aba people benefitted from it while God will take the glory.  He also counseled every resident of the city to get their PVCs and be obedient saying that obedience is the first law in heaven.  Echema called on Aba people to come out from Social Media and take real life actions that will benefit the nation by being “a structure to good candidates who have no structure” in the coming elections.  The Managing Director, of RightChoice Electronics, Chief Ogochukwu Mgbii, said the company was incorporated in 2007 with focus on importation of electronics and electrical appliances, Distribution.  He said from a small shop on 20 Pound Road in Aba, Abia, they have expanded businesses to Port Harcourt in Rivers and Uyo, in Akwa Ibom.  He said the establishment and opening of the Aba world-class showroom as is obtainable abroad is a dream come true.  He thanked the company’s supporters and customers who made the project possible.  The Abia governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, represented by Chief Godswill Nwanorue, Abia Transport Commissioner expressed joy over the establishment of the showroom in Aba.  He promised that the Nnamdi Azikiwe Road in Aba will be rehabilitated for such big establishments to be easily accessible to their customers.