L-R: Mr. Patrick Osilaja. the Financial Secretary, Mr. Sipe Babajide, the Secretary-General, Dr Oluseye Awojobi, CIBN Registrar/Chief Executive, Rasheed Bolarinwa, ACAMB President, Mrs. Ozena Utulu, Social Secretary and Mr. Oze K. Oze First Vice President during the media briefing on Tuesday July19, 2022 at Ijewere Hall, CIBN House, Lagos The management of the Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB) which responsible for banking industry corporate communications and reputation management group said ACAMB in collaboration with Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria on the forthcoming conference which it expected to chart the course for effective areas of teamwork for the growth of national economy at this challenging time. The forthcoming the 1st National Stakeholders Conference on Synergy between the Nigerian Industry and the Organized Private Sector slate hold on Wednesday August 3 at Ijewere Hall, CIBN House, Lagos. The ACAMB President, Rasheed Bolarinwa saying the conference would proffer lasting solutions to the constant discord between the industry and the Organized Private Sector (OPS). Advertisement Ultimately, he said the Nigerian economy would be the major beneficiary of the conference as far reaching strategies would be unfolded to tap into the economy untapped benefits through the expected synergy. “As the apex professional body of the banking industry, the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has a critical role to play in the 1st National Conference on Synergy between the Nigerian Industry and the Organized Private Sector (OPS).” Bolarinwa stressed further that the conference would bring together the best players on both sides to act as Think-Tank for the Nation’s macro-economic growth. The Organized Private Sector is a valued stakeholder of the banking industry, he added. ACAMB President said both the banking industry and the Organized Private Sector play major roles in growing the economy, therefore, there is need for the two sectors to work together closely cannot be overemphasized. “The conference offers a unique platform for private sector players and the banking community to share perspectives on how the synergy, communication, cooperation and mutual understanding between these two critical segments of the Nigerian Economy can be improved to benefit the Nigerian people and economy progressively. ACAMB is therefore reaching out to secure the participation of relevant speakers at the conference, he noted. Advertisemtn The current ACAMB leadership conceived the maiden edition of “National Conference on Synergy between the Nigerian Industry and the Organized Private Sector.” Bolarinwa disclosed that the conference which slated to hold on August 3, 2022 Wednesday at CIBN House Lagos with the CBN Governor, CIBN President, NACCIMA and MAN President to deliver keynotes addresses respectively. Furthermore, the conference will have the strategic panelist led by the leadership of the sectors that cuts across banking players and the OPS including NECA, NASSI, NASME, etc. http://www.amehnews.com Bolarinwa stated that ACAMB will persist in generating innovative and creative initiatives to promote the growth and development of that of the banking industry and the national economy adding that reaching out to all critical stakeholders ensure inclusiveness and maximization of capacity. ACAMB President revealed that at the end of the Session, we expect a robust Communique that will provide a road map for a new relationship between the banking and Organized Private Sector. “The main plenary session will be moderated by the foremost Economist/Consultant, Dr Abiuodun Adedipe.  Also speaking at the event, Dr Oluseye Awojobi, CIBN Registrar/Chief Executive said ACAMB as image making body of the banking industry has very key to bring together the banking industry and Organized Private Sector then illuminate over how best to make Nigeria economy work and off course as you know, CIBN been apex professional body has no choice other than encourage and ensure that this major decision and initiation to make our economy better. Edward Adegbite Ademosu, ex-official of the Association added that it not our job to sit back and believe that we have it all, we understand our partners. On this base that ACAMB is taking bold decision to create a platform for both banking industry and organized private sector to interacts together that would foster understanding and progress of our nation economy. We must have common place for these two critical stakeholders in our economy, he added.