The Federal Ministry of Transportation (FMOT), in collaboration with Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) is organizing a sensitization programme on some functions of the council. The programme, which will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani, is scheduled to hold Friday 22nd, July, 2022 at Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, by 9.00am. The theme of the programme “Port Economic Regulator – NSC in Focus” is aimed at enlightening the stakeholders and the general public on the mandate of Nigerian Shippers’ Council as Port Economic Regulator.  A paper titled ” Promoting Competitiveness and Compliance in Nigerian maritime Industry”, will be presented at this much anticipated event by Prof. Bongo Adi, a maritime economist. According to the statement sent to The Ameh News (TAN) and endorsed by Rakiya Dhikru-Yagboyaju, Head, Public Relations of the council sayings Regulated Service Providers, CEOs of Regulatory Agencies, Maritime Experts, Lawyers, Organized Private Sector and Shippers, Nigeria Customs Service and other stakeholders are expected to attend the sensitization programme. It may be recalled that the Federal Government’s Port Reform programme of 2006 transferred the ownership of Nigerian’ ports to private investors. In the reform, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) was the Landlord and the technical regulator for the ports while there was no agency in the maritime sector given the mandate of port economic regulator. She stated that this brought about irregularities in the shipping sector and also the anomalies include the imposition of different tariff headings by terminal operators and Shipping lines/agents, lack of holding bays for containers, shortage of modern cargo handling equipment, etc. In-order to address the anomalies, mrs Dhikru-Yagboyaju said the maritime stakeholders sought the appointment of a regulator for the ports.  On February 14, 2014, the Federal Government pronounced Nigerian Shippers’ Council as interim port regulator. Shippers’ Council had before that always protected the interest of shippers. In 2015, the Federal Government declared Nigerian Shippers’ Council as the Port Economic Regulator, she added.  “As the port economic regulator, NSC was saddled with the responsibility to institute effective regulation at ports, working with other government agencies The Council has over the years also embarked on various initiatives to bring sanity to the ports.”