Ericsson (NASDAQ: ERIC) announces the launch of its Together Apart Hackathon in Nigeria. The Hackathon’s objective is to identify innovative solutions using technology and connectivity creating tomorrow’s solutions from today’s challenges inspired by Nigeria’s 5G deployment. Ericsson’s Nigeria Together Apart Hackathon is hacking for a connected future and solving global challenges. The theme-based hackathon aims to identify innovative and commercially viable solutions showcasing the power of connectivity and 5G in Nigeria. The report reiterated that the hackathon’s objective is to identify innovative solutions using technology and connectivity creating tomorrow’s solutions from today’s challenges inspired by Nigeria’s 5G deployment.  Taking place between the 12th and the 14th of August, the hackathon competition which will bring together the qualified participants with teams contributing with solutions inspired by ‘Africa in Motion’; Ericsson’s mission to empower a sustainable and connected Africa. Registration is available for the hackathon competition via the link: Ericsson Together Apart Hackathon Nigeria . The Together Apart Hackathon will improve livelihoods, and contribute to the sustainable and economic growth of the country by working with entrepreneurs, professionals, academics, and university students from across Nigeria to identify innovative and commercially viable solutions and deep diving into the following focus areas:  1 Health care and education The hackathon aims to develop ideas, revolving around digital technologies and 5G, to stimulate innovations that improve lives of Nigerian citizens. A total of five winning teams will be chosen – one winning team from each focus area in the Nigeria Hackathon. The five winning teams will receive support in developing and scaling their solutions. One team will receive the grand prize to visit Ericsson’s headquarters in Sweden to pitch the team’s solution and interact with the entrepreneurial community. Participants will focus on creating innovative and viable solutions that are aimed at increasing the accessibility and inclusivity of healthcare, digital finance, and education in the country. With technology being viewed as an enabler to improve the livelihoods and income levels of different demographics in society, the Together Apart Hackathon encourages participants to efficiently harness the potential of new technologies to elevate standards of living across the country.  Peter Olusoji Ogundele, Country Manager of Ericsson Nigeria says: “Ericsson is committed to supporting local talent while focusing on ICT topics that are significant to Nigeria’s digital journey. The hackathon is the perfect opportunity to encourage creativity, ambition, and innovation to drive Nigerians’ technological capabilities and thereby bring about a positive impact to the nation. We are certain that the results of the hackathon will be inspirational, and we are looking forward to exploring the ideas and solutions of the participants that will contribute to the overall economic and social development of the country.” The hackathon is part of a range of projects Ericsson has initiated with the goal of developing and enhancing the country’s regional talent. Ericsson has constantly worked on initiatives focused on empowering women in technological fields such as data encryption and Artificial Intelligence and has also vigorously put in efforts to upskill and develop local talents in its countries. With Nigeria witnessing growth in entrepreneurship and tech start-ups ecosystems, the hackathon will inspire innovations that assist in Nigeria’s digital transformation journey. The outcome of the hackathon will improve the overall standard of living contributing to the existing body of scientific research and support Nigeria’s digital economy.