The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday, asked the Senate to confirm the appointment of the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, as the substantive CJN. He also asked the Senate to confirm the appointment of 19 Residential Electoral Commissioners and the re-appointment of four nominees as Non-Executive Directors of the Board of the Central Bank of Nigeria The President’s request on the CJN was contained in a letter dated July 25, 2022, and read by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, at the start of plenary on Tuesday. The letter reads, “Pursuant to Section 231(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), I forward for confirmation by the Senate, the appointment of Hon. Justice Olukayode Ariwoola as the Chief Justice of Nigeria. “While I hope that the submission will be considered in the usual expeditious manner, please accept, Distinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Justice Ariwoola’s appointment was sequel to the resignation of former CJN, Muhammad Tanko, on June 27, 2022. In a separate letter, Buhari requested the upper chamber to confirm the nomination of 19 persons as Independent National Electoral Commission’s RECs. He explained that the nomination of five RECs is for renewal, while the other 14 are fresh appointments. The nominees for confirmation include: Ibrahim Abdullahi (Adamawa – Renewal); Obo O. Effanga (Cross River – Renewal); Alh. Umar Ibrahim (Taraba – Renewal); Dr. Agboke Mutiu Olaleke (Ogun – Renewal); and Prof. Samuel E. Egwu (Kogi – Renewal). Others are: Onyeka Pauline Ugochi (Imo); Prof. Muhammad Lawal Bashir (Sokoto); Prof. Ayobami Salami (Oyo); Amb. Zango Abdussamadu Abdu (Katsina); Mrs. Queen Elizabeth Agwu (Ebonyi); and Dr. Agundu Oliver Tersoo (Benue). Also to be confirmed are: Yomere Gabriel Oritsemlebi (Delta); Prof. Yahaya Makarfi Ibrahim (Kaduna); Dr. Nura Ali (Kano); Agu Sylvia Uchenna (Enugu); Ahmed Yushau Garki (FCT); Barr. Hudu Yunusa (Bauchi); Prof. Uzochukwu Ikemefuna Chijioke (Anambra); and Mohammed B. Nura (Yobe). Dr. Suleiman Agha Afikpo as Commissioner representing the South-East zone, at the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria. He explained that the request was in accordance with the provision of Section 3(2) of the Hajj Commission Act. Cap. 321, Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 2004. Similarly, the Senate, on Tuesday, received a request from Buhari, to confirm the re-appointment of four nominees as Non-Executive Directors of the Board of the Central Bank of Nigeria.