Celebrations started early at Cold Stone Creamery with a festival of giving filled with loads of fun and excitement. This July is splashed with memorable days of ultimate indulgence to make celebrating this EID exciting and thrilling. It’s a whole month of fun and surprises. http://www.amehnews.com According to Eat n Go marketing director, Ilyas Kazeem “There’s non-stop excitement with mouth-watery deals from Cold Stone. So, strap your seats and stay on the edge because it’s a whole new level of satisfying your taste buds. Cold Stone is offering an indulgent experience to celebrate World Chocolate and Eid Day with exciting pocket-friendly offers. Isn’t that amazing?” “Grab a friend, a loved one or just an acquaintance to partake in this festival of giving and experience the delicious goodness of Cold Stone Creamery. With the pocket-friendly Flash Sale Deal, you can indulge in an unforgettable experience for only N600. Oh, Yass!! You heard right. It’s an all-time favourite with the same great taste and the never changing Cold Stone ultimate ice cream experience available online at https://www.coldstonecreamery.ng/ and in all our stores nationwide.” Ilyas added. http://www.son.gov.ng He enjoins customers to enjoy a delightfully delicious chocolate experience as Cold Stone joins chocolate lovers the world over to celebrate World Chocolate Day. “To enjoy this chunky-chocolatey delicious goodness, hop on our website https://www.coldstonecreamery.ng/ or check us out on all our social media platforms to join the conversation with the Cold Stone tribe and stay informed of new deals, new flavours and freebies. Who doesn’t love a Cold Stone deal? He asked. It’s always an indulgent experience with Cold Stone. It’s tasty fun like never before. Take your tastebuds on a scrumptious ride and enjoy a yummy, tasty experience wherever you are and enjoy 50% off on the Love it cup purchased online. It’s the Online way whenever, wherever and, however. Indulge in the amazing Cold Stone experience of this festival of giving. It’s the Eid of fun and a Chocolatey celebration of World Chocolate Day.  “Visit our website at https://www.coldstonecreamery.ng/ and enjoy a tasty experience with friends and family. Walk into any Cold Stone outlet nationwide and indulge in ultimate ice cream experience to celebrate Eid and World Chocolate day. “for more information on all deals, follow us on all social media platforms @coldstonecreamery_nigeria on Instagram @coldstonecreamerynigeria on Facebook and @coldstone on Twitter.