“Manufacturers are heavy users of electricity in Nigeria and this naturally necessitates our keen interest in all electricity and alternative energy supply related discourse and development.” The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in reaction to the recent increase in the price of automotive gas oil (AGO) said Association is greatly concerned about the implications of the over 200% increase in the price of AGO on the Nigerian economy and the manufacturing sector. According to the Director General of the Association, four obvious questions that readily come to mind that are seriously begging for answers are: – What can we do as a nation to strengthen our economic absorbers from external shocks? Should manufacturing companies that are already battered with multiple taxes, poor access to foreign exchange and now over 200% increase in price of diesel be advised to shut down operations? should we fold our arms and allow the economy to slip into the valley of recession again? Is the nation well equipped to manage the resulting explosive inflation and unemployment rates? In a statement sent to The Ameh News and endorsed by Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of MAN saying In the short term the disruption occasioned by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia will continue to heavily ruffle the global energy space and upset the supply of petroleum products thereby causing persistent increase in the price of refined petroleum products including AGO. In the long run, it will result in enormous increase in the prices of other manufacturing inputs like wheat, maize, fertilizers and the raw materials, he added. He stressed that by the time the current domestic reserve of manufacturing inputs is exhausted, in the face of acute shortfall in supply, we are afraid that the prices of manufactured products will soar. Ironically, Ajayi-Kadir pointed out that the Nigerian economy is completely dependent on importation of refined petroleum products including diesel and other vital manufacturing raw materials and there are currently no sufficient alternatives. “We are concerned about the implications of the sharp increase in the price of diesel on the manufacturing sector, which include:  MANUFACTURERS’ EXPECTATIONS Nevertheless, Association said in light of the gravity of the precarious situation that we have found ourselves as a nation and the looming dangers ahead, the expectations of manufacturers in Nigeria are as follows: that Government should  MAN DG further observed that the manufacturing sector in Nigeria employs over 5 million workers, directly and indirectly with 8.46% contribution to Gross Domestic Product adding that the sector also dominates export trade in the West African region, generate foreign exchange, contributes substantially to revenue of Government and human capital development in Nigeria. “It is therefore imperative that manufacturing be given priority attention and safe guarded against steep deadline. This should be backed with comprehensive and integrated support system during times of crisis. Its performance should be enhanced through a pro-manufacturing policy that will encourage scale and lower unit cost of production.  “Over the years, the manufacturing sector has been battered by numerous familiar challenges that have plummeted the number of industries in Nigeria and converted industrial hubs in many parts of the country to warehouses of imported goods and event centres. He pointed out that the top on the list of challenges confronting the sector is high operating cost environment occasioned largely by inadequate electricity supply and the high cost of alternative sources, excessive regulation and taxation, and inadequate supply of foreign exchange for importation of raw materials, spare parts and machinery that are locally available. All these have culminated into the lacklustre performance of the sector, he stressed. According to the statement, MAN is the voice of manufacturers in Nigeria and the leading Business Membership Organization in West Africa and the African Continent. The Association represents the interests of over 3,000 manufacturers (small; medium; large and multinational industries) spread across 10 sectors, 76 sub-sectors and 16 industrial zones and currently leading the Federation of West African Manufacturers Association and Pan African Manufacturers Association, he added.