…Omu Anioma unveils local fabrics ‘Akwa Ocha’R-L: Godwin Osunde, Team Lead, Heritage Bank; Agela Aghedo, Service Manager; Opene-Terry Josephine, 2nd Prize Winner, Solo Amaco, Nollywood Producer; Charles Ojakovo, Ag. Group Head, South-South 2/ECM and Yusuf Adeojo, Head, Retail Promotions & Incentives, Product Mgt & Inclusive Banking of Heritage Bank at the cheque Prize presentation to the Best Dancers dressed in Akwa-Ocha guaranteed by Heritage Bank Ynspyre Account, during the unveiling of the Anioma eternal native attire, “Akwa Ocha” to the Entertainment world during the Delta Music, Comedy and Fashion Expo held at the Dome Event Centre, Asaba, Delta State.  Heritage Bank Plc, Nigeria’s Most Innovative Service provider has collaborated with Delta State to make the creative and entertainment industry mainstay of revenue generation that will stimulate sustainable growth to the nation’s economy.  This was disclosed when the Omu Anioma and Nneoha, HRM Obi Martha Dunkwu unveiled the Anioma eternal native attire, “Akwa Ocha” to the Entertainment world during the Delta Music, Comedy and Fashion Expo held at the Dome Event Centre, Asaba, Delta State. Meanwhile, during a contest for best dancers dressed in Akwa-Ocha, organized by 2Things Promotion and prize money guaranteed by Heritage Bank Ynspyre Account, the 1st Prize winner, Friday Nkechi received N250,000, whilst Opene-Terry Joseph and Usanga Joseph as the 2nd and 3rd winners carted away N150,000 and N100,000, respectively  The MD/CEO of the bank, Ifie Sekibo, in his remarks said the partnership is in line with its culture as timeless wealth partners which has continued to impact positively on the nation’s socio-economic development. READ ALSO THIS: DMO’s Q2 borrowing plan; show FG adding N720bn to N39.55trn debt  “The Akwa Ocha fabric Industry, Entertainment and Creative Industry that Delta State is known for, may be the revenue base of the State Government beyond Oil. Heritage Bank is always available and ready to partner with the State and players in the industry to achieve Delta beyond Oil,” he said.  According to him, the music and entertainment industry has done so much for Nigeria in terms of employment and foreign exchange earnings and if more resources could be put into it, the country would be better for it.  Sekibo who was represented by the Ag. Group Head, South-South 2/ECM, Charles Ojakovo affirmed that the bank would continue to support initiatives that have to do with sustainable growth, adding that the bank has always supported the Entertainment and Creative Industry. “This Industry over the years has had a huge impact on our GDP and engaging a very large number of our youths thereby reducing the level of unemployment.  “Akwa ocha is an Anioma Heritage and our Heritage, and there is need to take it to the next level and international standards, as a hub to orchestrate economic growth,” he noted.  He further explained that Heritage Bank’s various entrepreneural schemes in support of business had always focused on dependable job-creating sectors, such as agricultural value chain (fish farming, poultry, snail farming), cottage industry, mining and solid minerals, creative industry (tourism, arts, and crafts), and Information and Communications Technology (ICT).  HRM Dunkwu commended Heritage Bank for its partnership with the organizers of the event for factoring a concept that introduces the Akwa Ocha fabric into fashion shows.  She emphasized how impressed she was at the beautiful appearance of all the models who were gorgeously dressed in the attire in such a dignified and holy exhibition.  Omu Dunkwu said she couldn’t have been more excited having been chosen as the one to do the unveiling of the Akwa Ocha for which she had devoted over a decade to promoting in line with propagating the unique identity and values of the Anioma people of Delta State.  Dunkwu affirmed that there was no fabric like the Akwa Ocha all over the world, which is why different people of the world are coming to identify with the source of the captivating attire – Anioma land.  The cerebral Queen Mother of the Anioma nation advised that conscious effort be made to market the brand by the younger generation who are willing to go into fashion business, maintaining that Akwa Ocha fabric could be money spinning venture if well packaged because of its unique and attractive features.