The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) Economic Review for second half of 2021 disclosed that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) have consistently retained the intermediate monetary policy variables: that is, Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 11.5% with asymmetric corridor at +100/-700; Credit Reserve Ratio (CRR) at 27.5%; and Liquidity Ratio at 30%. The report further stated that the rationale for this policy stance of the apex bank has been to spur economic growth and maintained price stability in the economy.  However, the report stated that notwithstanding this expansionist monetary scenario, inadequate and high-cost loanable funds have continued to be a prime challenge of manufacturing in the country. according to the statement, the situation has been exerting declining consequences on investment, capacity utilization, manufacturing production and employment. “As a result, in the second half of 2021, interest rate charged to manufacturers increased to 24 percent from 22 percent recorded in the same half in 2020; thus, indicating 2 percentage points increase over the period. It also increased by 5 percentage points when compared with 19 percent recorded in the preceding half. Lending rate for the sector averaged 21.5 percent in 2021 as against 20.75 percent in 2020. It is therefore important for the monetary authority to consider improving accessibility to the various CBN funding windows and entrench an ardent monetary policy that would moderate the current lending rates to encourage investment and productivity in the manufacturing sector.” READ ALSO THIS: 13% MPR have ripple effects on manufacturing sector-MAN Table 29: Interest Rate Administered to Manufacturers as reported by Sectoral grouping and in the Industrial Zone Source:  MAN Survey   Figure xxiv: Interest Rate Administered to Manufacturers as reported by Industrial Zone Source:  MAN Survey  MAN also recommends the following points for implementations  http://www.manufacturersassociation.org Association however noted that the year 2021 provided the opportunity to redress the staggering negative impact of COVID-19 Pandemic on global, national, and industrial scales. According to the report, just as world economy strongly rebounded in 2021 following the continuous containment of the pandemic and the opening of global economies, the Nigerian economy and the manufacturing sector also reflected this positive movement in their output growth in the year. The economy leapt from -1.94 growth rate in 2020 to 3.38 percent in 2021, just as the manufacturing sector growth increased from -2.85 percent in 2020 to 3.37 percent in 2021, it was reported.  “However, notwithstanding the improve performance of the manufacturing sector during the year, it is still far beyond its potential growth and contribution to national output due to an almost innumerable challenges confronting the sector.  Following direct feedback from manufacturers, we recommend first and foremost that Government should create plausible incentives for investment in the development of raw materials locally through the Backward Integration and Resource based industrialization initiates. We recognize an urgent need for investment and production of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) in the country; this should be adequately incentivized to encourage significant private investments.”