Prominent guests laud Airtel’s relentless support towards the less privileged Nigerians, and tagged Airtel as a role model to all, during the premiere of its philanthropy program ‘Airtel Touching Lives’ which was held on the 13th May 2022 at EbonyLife Place, Victoria Island, Lagos. The Lagos State Governor’s representative, Mr. Samuel Avwerosuo Egube, Honourable Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Lagos State, commended Airtel for being an example to individuals and organizations. “Airtel is leading as an example for individuals and institutions. They have exhibited the true Lagosian spirit of working in unity, by joining the Government in raising a sustainable nation. Sometimes we are restricted by our thoughts, as many of us believe it would cost a fortune to make an impact, but over time, I have realized that it does not cost as much as we envisage, therefore, as individuals and organizations, let us also make effort to reach out and empower the less privileged.” He said. Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun, wife of the governor of Ogun state, who was also present at the event, said “I would encourage Airtel to keep doing what they do, and also expand the program to have more development programs for an increased impact. I would like to implore Airtel and other entities to keep sharing these inspiring stories for the world to emulate. I am proud to be associated with Airtel Touching Lives, and I look forward to partnering with Airtel” http://www.airtelafrica.com Also speaking at the event, Former Chairman, First Bank Nigeria, Ibukun Awosika said, “No matter how many people Airtel decides to help, it will never be enough because there are so many ordinary hardworking, brilliant, and innovative Nigerians trying to find their way. Regardless, I want to thank Airtel for taking a bit of the burden away through its CSR Initiative.” A beneficiary of Airtel Touching Lives Season5, who survived a ghastly accident that damaged his urinary tract until Airtel intervened by supporting him with N8,000,000 (Eight Million Naira) for corrective surgery in the United Kingdom, commended Airtel for giving him a second chance at life. He said, “I have always heard about stories like this on Television and Radio, but I never knew such an opportunity would come to my doorstep for free. Airtel gave me a second chance without wanting anything in return.” READ ALSO THIS: How Allen Onyema Earns National Productivity Order of Merit Award Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Surendran Chemmenkotil, while speaking on the track record of the initiative said Airtel Touching Lives has not only recorded milestones but has offered real help to individuals, communities, groups, and institutions since the launch of the initiative. “In Season 6, Airtel Nigeria has helped to rebuild a dream, a life, a hospital. We helped children rebuild their confidence, get an education, and we tested millions for COVID. We turned tears of sadness into tears of Joy.” In his closing remark, he further encouraged other corporate entities as well as well-spirited individuals to join hands in improving the society, as collaboration to solve societal problems can make a huge difference, and if the privileged people continue to support the needy, society will excel and triumph at a quicker pace. Other prominent guests at the event include Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange Limited, Temi Popoola, Chairman and Co-founder, SEPLAT, Dr. ABC Orjiako, Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria, Engr. Gbenga Adebayo and several other industry leaders. Airtel Touching Lives is a reality television show aired on satellite and terrestrial networks across Africa. Each season, the programme follows the journey of nominees and documents Airtel’s process of providing tailor-made assistance to several beneficiaries. 