…… Seizes 2.3million Tramadol tabs, 2,919 bottles of Codeine in Kaduna  Travellers’ cheques Attempted through NAHCO Export Shed  The operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA have been intercepted Travellers’ cheques in different foreign currencies with a total value of One Billion, One Hundred and Fifty-Seven Million, Six Hundred and Seventy Thousand, Four Hundred and Sixty Nine Naira and Ninety Two Kobo (N1,157, 670,469.92) in Ikeja Lagos   READ ALSO THIS: NDLEA intercepts N1.1billion travellers’ cheques, 10.89kg Cocaine at Lagos airport Accordingly to the statement sent to The AmehNews and endorsed by Femi Babafemi Director, Media & Advocacy, NDLEA saying At least, a suspect, Oguma Richard Uchenna has been arrested in connection to the attempt to export the cheques, which were neatly concealed inside four bound hard cover books disguised as academic project literatures, to the United Kingdom.   He further disclosed that the financial instruments suspected to be counterfeits were discovered on Wednesday 27th April at NAHCO export shed of the Lagos airport during cargo examination of some consignments meant for exportation.  “A breakdown of the cheques shows monetary values of Two Hundred and Eighty Seven Thousand, Six Hundred and Twenty Three Dollars, Thirty One Cent ($287, 623.31); One Million Four Hundred and Fifty Six Thousand Three Hundred Canadian Dollars ($1,456,300) and One Million Two Hundred and Ninety Seven Thousand Eight Hundred (1,297,800) Euros.  MMIA  Babafemi said NDLEA at the airport have foiled drug traffickers to smuggle into Nigeria 10.89kilograms of cocaine through a Qatar Airways flight.  According to him, the illicit drug was hidden in seven children duvets packed in an unaccompanied bag from Brazil.   Kaduna, Ondo and Akwa Ibom states  The NDLEA media agency said, raid operations in the above states have led to the seizure of about 2,000kg of Tramadol, Codeine, Cannabis and Heroin.  In Ondo state, he added that 401kg of cannabis was recovered and two suspects: Julius Dapo, 56 and Emeka Ikebuaku, 32, were arrested at Ipele forest in Owo area on Sunday 24th April.   “On same day, a transborder drug trafficker, Chigbo Chinonye, 42, was arrested with amphetamine weighing 2.5kg and heroin weighing 0.5kg during stop and search operation conducted along Oron- Ibaka road on his way to Cameroon.  https://ndlea.gov.ng  He concealed the drugs using false bottom packaging.   In Kaduna  Babafemi revealed that a total of 47 cartons of suspected fake Tramadol, comprising 2,350,000 tablets, weighing 1222kg were seized in Zaria on Monday 25th April while a dealer, Chinedu Asogwa was arrested the following day 26th April along Abuja-Kaduna express road, with 2919 bottles of cough syrup with codeine, measuring 291.9litres and a gross weight of 396kg.   The Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd) commends and charges the officers and men of the Agency in Area Commands for their compatriots across the country. He, however urges them to remain steadfast and vigilant in their areas of responsibility. 