Deji Adeyanju, an Abuja-based activist, has described Goodluck Jonathan’s presence in the All Progressives Congress, APC, as a welcome development. Adeyanju feels that Jonathan is the only aspirant that can challenge the likes of the national leader of the APC, Alhaji Bola Tinubu for the party’s ticket. Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association of Nigeria on Monday purchased the APC presidential nomination and expression of interest forms for the former Nigerian leader. The former President has, however, said he was not aware and did not authorize the purchase of the forms. Jonathan had since met with the National Chairman of the APC, Abdullahi Adamu and though the details of the meeting is sketchy, he is believed to have told the APC chairman he was not aware of the purchase of the forms. But Adeyanju believes it was a right call by the former Nigerian leader, adding that Tinubu will not be comfortable by the development. “Former President Goodluck Jonathan has joined the ruling APC. This is a welcome development because GEJ is one of those who can effectively challenge the god of Lagos. “Tinubu and those pushing the Yoruba presidency will be so angry right now, but on Igbo presidency I stand,” Adeyanju wrote. Deji Adeyanju, an Abuja-based activist, has described Goodluck Jonathan’s presence in the All Progressives Congress, APC, as a welcome development. Adeyanju feels that Jonathan is the only aspirant that can challenge the likes of the national leader of the APC, Alhaji Bola Tinubu for the party’s ticket. Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association of Nigeria on Monday purchased the APC presidential nomination and expression of interest forms for the former Nigerian leader. The former President has, however, said he was not aware and did not authorize the purchase of the forms. Jonathan had since met with the National Chairman of the APC, Abdullahi Adamu and though the details of the meeting is sketchy, he is believed to have told the APC chairman he was not aware of the purchase of the forms. But Adeyanju believes it was a right call by the former Nigerian leader, adding that Tinubu will not be comfortable by the development. “Former President Goodluck Jonathan has joined the ruling APC. This is a welcome development because GEJ is one of those who can effectively challenge the god of Lagos. “Tinubu and those pushing the Yoruba presidency will be so angry right now, but on Igbo presidency I stand,” Adeyanju wrote.