Technology-driven e-commerce platform, QShop says it is strengthening its platform to improve growth opportunities for Small and Medium Enterprises, SMEs in Nigeria. The organisation which made this known at a virtual press briefing stated that the move was necessary, given the shifting regulatory and operating environments affecting MSMEs globally. The founder of QShop, Tarebi Alebiosu stated that current situation required operators in the sector to up their game and embrace innovation to adapt to a changing business terrain, largely influenced by technology. To this end, Alebiosu explained that Qshop is offering an affordable e-commerce solution by which operators can achieve business objectives, while also contributing to economic growth. “During the pandemic, we found that technology was one of the major factors that helped many small businesses survive. However, many struggled to navigate the complexity of integrating technology into their businesses’ day-to-day running. Therefore, we developed QShop, a mobile-first solution in late 2020 to make e-commerce technology adoption for small businesses affordable. Simply put, we are helping small businesses to sell online and scale easily. QShop is deeply integrated with social media allowing for a seamless and easy setup; most stores are up and running in two minutes or less.” Alebiosu explained further that the organisation is in partnership with payment platforms like Stripe, Flutterwave, Paystack and Providus to make payment seamless for merchants in any currency. “Businesses are also sure to receive store credit for transactions in as little as one hour.  We are also supporting technology integration with Facebook Pixel, Instagram, and Google Analytics. This allows merchants to set up their stores in minutes, improve consumer engagement and measure growth”, she added. Commenting further, Head of Technology at QShop, Harrison Hammond, said, “We want to help customers grow from zero to a hundred with technology. We serve as the middle man to bring all the tools- websites, inventory, payment channels, and logistics -to one place. SMEs currently inundated with the complexity of technological integrations can start with QShop. Our long term growth plan is underpinned by a focus on boosting growth for retail-focused businesses. Hence, merchants can expect platform upgrades that include access to credit, markets, and business training.” Alebiosu reckoned that more SMEs operators are coming to terms with technological influence given that over 10,000 operators have signed up on the platform within two years, while $500,000 has been processed in combined merchants sales.